{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}}
{\info{\operator BookLov3r}{\title Chromosome 6}{\author Robin Cook}}
\viewkind1\uc1\pard\qc\f0\fs36 Robin Cook\par
\fs56 Chromosome 6\par
\pard\fi283\qj\fs24\par
\par
\pard\qj\fs32 PROLOGUE\par
\pard\fi283\qj\fs24\par
\pard\qr MARCH 3, 1997\par
3:30 P.M.\par
COGO, EQUATORIAL GUINEA\par
\pard\fi283\qj\par
\pard\qj GIVEN a Ph.D. in molecular biology from MIT that had been earned in close cooperation with the Massachusetts General Hospital, Kevin Marshall found his squeamishness regarding medical procedures a distinct embarrassment. Although he\'92d never admitted it to anyone, just having a blood test or a vaccination was an ordeal for him. Needles were his specific b\'eate noire. The sight of them caused his legs to go rubbery and a cold sweat to break out on his broad forehead. Once he\'92d even fainted in college after getting a measles shot.\par
\pard\fi283\qj At age thirty-four, after many years of postgraduate biomedical research, some of it involving live animals, he\'92d expected to outgrow his phobia, but it hadn\'92t happened. And it was for that reason he was not in operating room 1A or 1B at the moment. Instead he\'92d chosen to remain in the intervening scrub room, where he was leaning against the scrub sink, a vantage that allowed him to look through angled windows into both OR\'92s\'97until he felt the need to avert his eyes.\par
The two patients had been in their respective rooms for about a quarter hour in preparation for their respective procedures. The two surgical teams were quietly conversing while standing off to the side. They were gowned and gloved and ready to commence.\par
There\'92d been little technical conversation in the OR\'92s except between the anesthesiologist and the two anesthetists as the patients were inducted under general anesthesia. The lone anesthesiologist had slipped back and forth between the two rooms to supervise and to be available at any sign of trouble.\par
But there was no trouble. At least not yet. Nonetheless, Kevin felt anxious. To his surprise he did not experience the same sense of triumph he had enjoyed during three previous comparable procedures when he\'92d exalted in the power of science and his own creativity.\par
Instead of jubilation Kevin felt a mushrooming unease. His discomfort had started almost a week previously, but it was now, watching these patients and contemplating their different prognoses, that Kevin felt the disquietude with disturbing poignancy. The effect was similar to his thinking about needles: perspiration appeared on his forehead and his legs trembled. He had to grasp the edge of the scrub sink to steady himself.\par
The door to operating room 1A opened suddenly, startling Kevin. He was confronted by a figure whose pale blue eyes were framed by a hood and a face mask. Recognition was rapid: It was Candace Brickmann, one of the surgical nurses.\par
\'93The IV\'92s are all started, and the patients are asleep,\'94 Candace said. \'93Are you sure you don\'92t want to come in? You\'92ll be able to see much better.\'94\par
\'93Thank you, but I\'92m fine right here,\'94 Kevin said.\par
\'93Suit yourself,\'94 Candace said.\par
The door swung shut behind Candace as she returned to one of the surgeries. Kevin watched her scurry across the room and say something to the surgeons. Their response was to turn in Kevin\'92s direction and give him a thumbs-up sign. Kevin self-consciously returned the gesture.\par
The surgeons went back to their conversation, but the effect of the wordless communication with Kevin magnified his sense of complicity. He let go of the scrub sink and took a step backward. His unease was now tinged with fear. What had he done?\par
Spinning on his heels, Kevin fled from the scrub room and then from the operating suite. A puff of air followed him as he left the mildly positive pressure aseptic OR area and entered his gleaming, futuristic laboratory. He was breathing heavily as if out of breath from exertion.\par
On any other day, merely walking into his domain would have filled him with anticipation just at the thought of the discoveries awaiting his magic hand. The series of rooms literally bristled with hi-tech equipment the likes of which used to be the focus of his fantasies. Now these sophisticated machines were at his beck and call, day and night. Absently he ran his fingers lightly along the stainless-steel cowlings, casually brushing the analogue dials and digital displays as he headed for his office. He touched the hundred-and-fifty-thousand-dollar DNA sequencer and the five-hundred-thousand-dollar globular NMR machine that sprouted a tangle of wires like a giant sea anemone. He glanced at the PCR\'92s, whose red lights blinked like distant quasars announcing successive DNA-strand doublings. It was an environment that had previously filled Kevin with hope and promise. But now each Eppendorf microcentrifuge tube and each tissue-culture flask stood as mute reminders of the building foreboding he was experiencing.\par
Advancing to his desk, Kevin looked down at his gene map of the short arm of chromosome 6. His area of principal interest was outlined in red. It was the major histocompatibility complex. The problem was that the MHC was only a small portion of the short arm of chromosome 6. There were large blank areas that represented millions and millions of base pairs, and hence hundreds of other genes. Kevin did not know what they did.\par
A recent request for information concerning these genes that he\'92d put out over the Internet had resulted in some vague replies. Several researchers had responded that the short arm of chromosome 6 contained genes that were involved with muscular-skeletal development. But that was it. There were no details.\par
Kevin shuddered involuntarily. He raised his eyes to the large picture window above his desk. As usual it was streaked with moisture from the tropical rain that swept across the view in undulating sheets. The droplets slowly descended until enough had fused to reach a critical mass. Then they raced off the surface like sparks from a grinding wheel.\par
Kevin\'92s eyes focused into the distance. The contrast between the gleaming, air-conditioned interior with the outside world was always a shock. Roiling, gun-metal gray clouds filled the sky despite the fact that the dry season was supposed to have begun three weeks previously. The land was dominated by riotous vegetation that was so dark green as to almost appear black. Along the edge of the town it rose up like a gigantic, threatening tidal wave.\par
Kevin\'92s office was in the hospital-laboratory complex that was one of the few new structures in the previously decaying and deserted Spanish colonial town of Cogo in the little-known African country of Equatorial Guinea. The building was three stories tall. Kevin\'92s office was on the top floor, facing southeast. From his window he could see a good portion of the town as it sprawled haphazardly toward the Estuario del Muni and its contributory rivers.\par
Some of the neighboring buildings had been renovated, some were in the process, but most had not been touched. A half dozen previously handsome haciendas were enveloped by vines and roots of vegetation that had gone wild. Over the whole scene hung the perennial mist of super-saturated warm air.\par
In the immediate foreground Kevin could see beneath the arched arcade of the old town hall. In the shadows were the inevitable handful of Equatoguinean soldiers in combat fatigues with AK-47\'92s haphazardly slung over their shoulders. As usual they were smoking, arguing, and consuming Cameroonean beer.\par
Finally Kevin let his eyes wander beyond the town. He\'92d been unconsciously avoiding doing so, but now he focused on the estuary whose rain-lashed surface looked like beaten tin. Directly south he could just make out the forested shoreline of Gabon. Looking to the east he followed the trail of islands that stretched toward the interior of the continent. On the horizon he could see the largest of the islands, Isla Francesca, named by the Portuguese in the fifteenth century. In contrast to the other islands, Isla Francesca had a jungle-covered limestone escarpment that ran down its center like the backbone of a dinosaur.\par
Kevin\'92s heart skipped a beat. Despite the rain and the mist, he could see what he\'92d feared he\'92d see. Just like a week ago there was the unmistakable wisp of smoke lazily undulating toward the leaden sky.\par
Kevin slumped into his desk chair and cradled his head in his hands. He asked himself what he\'92d done. Having minored in the Classics as an undergraduate, he knew about Greek myths. Now he questioned if he\'92d made a Promethean mistake. Smoke meant fire, and he had to wonder if it was the proverbial fire inadvertently stolen from the gods.\par
\par
\par
\pard\qr 6:45 P.M.\par
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS\par
\pard\fi283\qj\par
\pard\qj While a cold March wind rattled the storm windows, Taylor Devonshire Cabot reveled in the security and warmth of his walnut-paneled study in his sprawling Manchester-by-the-Sea home north of Boston, Massachusetts. Harriette Livingston Cabot, Taylor\'92s wife, was in the kitchen supervising the final stages of dinner scheduled to be served at seven-thirty sharp.\par
\pard\fi283\qj On the arm of Taylor\'92s chair balanced a cut-crystal glass of neat, single-malt whiskey. A fire crackled in the fireplace as Wagner played on the stereo, the volume turned low. In addition there were three, built-in televisions tuned respectively to a local news station, CNN, and ESPN.\par
Taylor was the picture of contentment. He\'92d spent a busy but productive day at the world headquarters of GenSys, a relatively new biotechnology firm he\'92d started eight years previously. The company had constructed a new building along the Charles River in Boston to take advantage of the proximity of both Harvard and MIT for recruitment purposes.\par
The evening commute had been easier than usual, and Taylor hadn\'92t had time to finish his scheduled reading. Knowing his employer\'92s habits, Rodney, his driver, had apologized for getting Taylor home so quickly.\par
\'93I\'92m sure you\'92ll be able to come up with a significant delay tomorrow night to make up,\'94 Taylor had quipped.\par
\'93I\'92ll do my best,\'94 Rodney had responded.\par
So Taylor wasn\'92t listening to the stereo or watching the TVs. Instead he was carefully reading the financial report scheduled to be released at the GenSys stockholders\'92 meeting scheduled the following week. But that didn\'92t mean he was unaware of what was going on around him. He was very much aware of the sound of the wind, the sputtering of the fire, the music, and alert to the various reporters\'92 banters on the TVs. So when the name Carlo Franconi was mentioned, Taylor\'92s head snapped up.\par
The first thing Taylor did was lift the remote and turn up the sound of the central television. It was the local news on the CBS affiliate. The anchors were Jack Williams and Liz Walker. Jack Williams had mentioned the name Carlo Franconi, and was going on to say that the station had obtained a videotape of the killing of this known Mafia figure who had some association with Boston crime families.\par
\'93This tape is quite graphic,\'94 Jack warned. \'93Parental discretion is recommended. You might remember that a few days ago we reported that the ailing Franconi had disappeared after his indictment, and many had feared he\'92d jumped bail. But then he\'92d just reappeared yesterday with the news that he\'92d struck a deal with the New York City\'92s DA\'92s office to plea-bargain and enter the witness-protection program. However, this evening while emerging from a favorite restaurant, the indicted racketeer was fatally shot.\'94\par
Taylor was transfixed as he watched an amateur video of an overweight man emerge from a restaurant accompanied by several people who looked like policemen. With a casual wave, the man acknowledged the crowd who\'92d assembled and then headed to an awaiting limousine. He assiduously ignored questions from any journalists angling to get close to him. Just as he was bending to enter the car, Franconi\'92s body jerked, and he staggered backward with his hand clasping the base of his neck. As he fell to his right, his body jerked again before hitting the ground. The men who\'92d accompanied him had drawn their guns and were frantically turning in all directions. The pursuing journalists had all hit the deck.\par
\'93Whoa!\'94 Jack commented. \'93What a scene! Sort\'92a reminds me of the killing of Lee Harvey Oswald. So much for police protection.\'94\par
\'93I wonder what effect this will have on future similar witnesses?\'94 Liz asked.\par
\'93Not good, I\'92m sure,\'94 Jack said.\par
Taylor\'92s eyes immediately switched to CNN, which was at that moment about to show the same video. He watched the sequence again. It made him wince. At the end of the tape, CNN went live to a reporter outside the Office of the Chief Medical Examiner for the City of New York.\par
\'93The question now is whether there were one or two assailants,\'94 the reporter said over the sound of the traffic on First Avenue. \'93It\'92s our impression that Franconi was shot twice. The police are understandably chagrined over this episode and have refused to speculate or offer any information whatsoever. We do know that an autopsy is scheduled for tomorrow morning, and we assume that ballistics will answer the question.\'94\par
Taylor turned down the sound on the television, then picked up his drink. Walking to the window, he gazed out at the angry, dark sea. Franconi\'92s death could mean trouble. He looked at his watch. It was almost midnight in West Africa.\par
Snatching up the phone, Taylor called the operator at GenSys and told him he wanted to speak with Kevin Marshall immediately.\par
Replacing the receiver, Taylor returned his gaze out the window. He\'92d never felt completely comfortable about this project although financially it was looking very profitable. He wondered if he should stop it. The phone interrupted his thoughts.\par
Picking the receiver back up, Taylor was told that Mr. Marshall was available. After some static Kevin\'92s sleepy voice crackled over the line.\par
\'93Is this really Taylor Cabot?\'94 Kevin asked.\par
\'93Do you remember a Carlo Franconi?\'94 Taylor demanded, ignoring Kevin\'92s question.\par
\'93Of course,\'94 Kevin said.\par
\'93He\'92s been murdered this afternoon,\'94 Taylor said. \'93There\'92s an autopsy scheduled for the morning in New York City. What I want to know is, could that be a problem?\'94\par
There was a moment of silence. Taylor was about to question whether the connection had been broken when Kevin spoke up.\par
\'93Yes, it could be a problem,\'94 Kevin said.\par
\'93Someone could figure out everything from an autopsy?\'94\par
\'93It\'92s possible,\'94 Kevin said. \'93I wouldn\'92t say probable, but it is possible.\'94\par
\'93I don\'92t like possible,\'94 Taylor said. He disconnected from Kevin and called the operator back at GenSys. Taylor said he wanted to speak immediately to Dr. Raymond Lyons. He emphasized that it was an emergency.\par
\par
\par
\pard\qr NEW YORK CITY\par
\pard\fi283\qj\par
\pard\qj\'93Excuse me,\'94 the waiter whispered. He\'92d approached Dr. Lyons from the left side, having waited for a break in the conversation the doctor was engaged in with his young, blond assistant and current lover, Darlene Poison. Between his gracefully graying hair and conservative apparel, the good doctor looked like the quintessential, soap-opera physician. He was in his early fifties, tall, tanned, and enviably slender with refined, patrician good looks.\par
\pard\fi283\qj\'93I\'92m sorry to intrude,\'94 the waiter continued. \'93But there is an emergency call for you. Can I offer you our cordless phone or would you prefer to use the phone in the hall?\'94\par
Raymond\'92s blue eyes darted back and forth between Darlene\'92s affable but bland face and the considerate waiter whose impeccable demeanor reflected Aureole\'92s 26 service rating in Zagat\'92s restaurant guide. Raymond did not look happy.\par
\'93Perhaps I should tell them you are not available,\'94 the waiter suggested.\par
\'93No, I\'92ll take the cordless,\'94 Raymond said. He couldn\'92t imagine who could be calling him on an emergency basis. Raymond had not been practicing medicine since he\'92d lost his medical license after having been convicted of a major Medicare scam he\'92d been carrying on for a dozen years.\par
\'93Hello?\'94 Raymond said with a degree of trepidation.\par
\'93This is Taylor Cabot. There\'92s a problem.\'94\par
Raymond visibly stiffened and his brow furrowed.\par
Taylor quickly summarized the Carlo Franconi situation and his call to Kevin Marshall.\par
\'93This operation is your baby,\'94 Taylor concluded irritably. \'93And let me warn you: it is small potatoes in the grand scheme of things. If there is trouble, I\'92ll scrap the entire enterprise. I don\'92t want bad publicity, so handle it.\'94\par
\'93But what can I do?\'94 Raymond blurted out.\par
\'93Frankly, I don\'92t know,\'94 Taylor said. \'93But you\'92d better think of something, and you\'92d better do it fast.\'94\par
\'93Things couldn\'92t be going any better from my end,\'94 Raymond interjected. \'93Just today I made positive contact with a physician in L.A. who treats a lot of movie stars and wealthy West Coast businessmen. She\'92s interested in setting up a branch in California.\'94\par
\'93Maybe you didn\'92t hear me,\'94 Taylor said. \'93There isn\'92t going to be a branch anyplace if this Franconi problem isn\'92t resolved. So you\'92d better get busy. I\'92d say you have about twelve hours.\'94\par
The resounding click of the disconnection made Raymond\'92s head jerk. He looked at the phone as if it had been responsible for the precipitate termination of the conversation. The waiter, who\'92d retreated to an appropriate distance, stepped forward to retrieve the phone before disappearing.\par
\'93Trouble?\'94 Darlene questioned.\par
\'93Oh, God!\'94 Raymond voiced. Nervously he chewed the quick of his thumb. It was more than trouble. It was potential disaster. With his attempts at retrieving his medical license tied up in the quagmire of the judicial system, his current work situation was all he had, and things had only recently been clicking. It had taken him five years to get where he was. He couldn\'92t let it all go down the drain.\par
\'93What is it?\'94 Darlene asked. She reached out and pulled Raymond\'92s hand away from his mouth.\par
Raymond quickly explained about the upcoming autopsy on Carlo Franconi and repeated Taylor Cabot\'92s threat to scrap the entire enterprise.\par
\'93But it\'92s finally making big money,\'94 Darlene said. \'93He won\'92t scrap it.\'94\par
Raymond gave a short, mirthless laugh. \'93It isn\'92t big money to someone like Taylor Cabot and GenSys,\'94 he said. \'93He\'92d scrap it for certain. Hell, it was difficult to talk him into it in the first place.\'94\par
\'93Then you have to tell them not to do the autopsy,\'94 Darlene said.\par
Raymond stared at his companion. He knew she meant well, and he\'92d never been attracted to her for her brain power. So he resisted lashing out. But his reply was sarcastic: \'93You think I can just call up the medical examiner\'92s office and tell them not to do an autopsy on such a case? Give me a break!\'94\par
\'93But you know a lot of important people,\'94 Darlene persisted. \'93Ask them to call.\'94\par
\'93Please, dear\~.\~.\~.\'94 Raymond said condescendingly, but then he paused. He began to think that unwittingly Darlene had a point. An idea began to germinate.\par
\'93What about Dr. Levitz?\'94 Darlene said. \'93He was Mr. Franconi\'92s doctor. Maybe he could help.\'94\par
\'93I was just thinking the same thing,\'94 Raymond said. Dr. Daniel Levitz was a Park Avenue physician with a big office, high overhead, and a dwindling patient base, thanks to managed care. He\'92d been easy to recruit and had been one of the first doctors to join the venture. On top of that, he\'92d brought in many clients, some of them in the same business as Carlo Franconi.\par
Raymond stood up, extracted his wallet, and plopped three crisp one-hundred-dollar bills on the table. He knew that was more than enough for the tab and a generous tip. \'93Come on,\'94 he said. \'93We\'92ve got to make a house call.\'94\par
\'93But I haven\'92t finished my entree,\'94 Darlene complained.\par
Raymond didn\'92t respond. Instead he whisked Darlene\'92s chair out from the table, forcing her to her feet. The more he thought about Dr. Levitz, the more he thought the man could be the savior. As the personal physician of a number of competing New York crime families, Levitz knew people who could do the impossible.\par
\par
\par
\pard\qj\fs32 CHAPTER 1\par
\pard\fi283\qj\fs24\par
\pard\qr MARCH 4, 1997\par
7:25 A.M.\par
NEW YORK CITY\par
\pard\fi283\qj\par
\pard\qj JACK Stapleton bent over and put more muscle into his pedaling as he sprinted the last block heading east along Thirtieth Street. About fifty yards from First Avenue he sat up and coasted no-hands before beginning to brake. The upcoming traffic light was not in his favor, and even Jack wasn\'92t crazy enough to sail out into the mix of cars, buses, and trucks racing uptown.\par
\pard\fi283\qj The weather had warmed considerably and the five inches of slush that had fallen two days previously was gone save for a few dirty piles between parked cars. Jack was pleased the roads were clear since he\'92d not been able to commute on his bike for several days. The bike was only three weeks old. It was a replacement for one that had been stolen a year previously.\par
Originally, Jack had planned on replacing the bike immediately. But he\'92d changed his mind after a terrifyingly close encounter with death made him temporarily conservative about risk. The episode had nothing to do with bike riding in the city, but nonetheless it scared him enough to acknowledge that his riding style had been deliberately reckless.\par
But time dimmed Jack\'92s fears. The final prod came when he lost his watch and wallet in a subway mugging. A day later, Jack bought himself a new Cannondale mountain bike, and as far as his friends were concerned, he was up to his old tricks. In reality, he was no longer tempting fate by squeezing between speeding delivery vans and parked cars; he no longer slalomed down Second Avenue; and for the most part he stayed out of Central Park after dark.\par
Jack came to a stop at the corner to wait for the light, and as his foot touched down on the pavement he surveyed the scene. Almost at once he became aware of a bevy of TV vans with extended antennae parked on the east side of First Avenue in front of his destination: the Office of the Chief Medical Examiner for the City of New York, or what some people called simply, the morgue.\par
Jack was an associate medical examiner, and he\'92d been in that position for almost a year and a half so he\'92d seen such journalistic congestion on numerous occasions. Generally it meant that there had been a death of a celebrity, or at least someone made momentarily famous by the media. If it wasn\'92t a single death, then it was a mass disaster like an airplane crash or a train wreck. For reasons both personal and public Jack hoped it was the former.\par
With a green light, Jack pedaled across First Avenue and entered the morgue through the receiving dock on Thirtieth Street. He parked his bike in his usual location near the Hart Island coffins used for the unclaimed dead and took the elevator up to the first floor.\par
It was immediately apparent to Jack that the place was in a minor uproar. Several of the day secretaries were busily manning the phones in the communications room: they normally didn\'92t arrive until eight. Their consoles were awash with blinking red lights. Even Sergeant Murphy\'92s cubicle was open and the overhead light was on, and his usual modus operandi was to arrive sometime after nine.\par
With curiosity mounting, Jack entered the ID room and headed directly for the coffeepot. Vinnie Amendola, one of the mortuary techs, was hiding behind his newspaper as per usual. But that was the only normal circumstance for that time of the morning. Generally Jack was the first pathologist to arrive, but on this particular day the deputy chief, Dr. Calvin Washington, Dr. Laurie Montgomery, and Dr. Chet McGovern were already there. The three were involved in a deep discussion along with Sergeant Murphy and, to Jack\'92s surprise, Detective Lieutenant Lou Soldano from homicide. Lou was a frequent visitor to the morgue, but certainly not at seven-thirty in the morning. On top of that, he looked like he\'92d never been to bed, or if he had, he\'92d slept in his clothes.\par
Jack helped himself to coffee. No one acknowledged his arrival. After adding a dollop of half-and-half as well as a cube of sugar to his cup, Jack wandered to the door to the lobby. He glanced out, and as he\'92d expected the area was filled to overflowing with media people talking among themselves and drinking take-out coffee. What he didn\'92t expect was that many were also smoking cigarettes. Since smoking was strictly taboo, Jack told Vinnie to go out there and inform them.\par
\'93You\'92re closer,\'94 Vinnie said, without looking up from his newspaper.\par
Jack rolled his eyes at Vinnie\'92s lack of respect but had to admit Vinnie was right. So Jack walked over to the locked glass door and opened it. Before he could call out his no smoking pronouncement, he was literally mobbed.\par
Jack had to push the microphones away that were thrust into his face. The simultaneous questions precluded any real comprehension of what the questions were other than about an anticipated autopsy.\par
Jack shouted at the top of his lungs that there was no smoking, then had to literally peel hands off his arm before he was able to get the door closed. On the other side the reporters surged forward, pressing colleagues roughly against the glass like tomatoes in a jar of preserves.\par
Disgusted, Jack returned to the ID room.\par
\'93Will someone clue me in to what\'92s going on?\'94 he called out.\par
Everyone turned in Jack\'92s direction, but Laurie was the first to respond. \'93You haven\'92t heard?\'94\par
\'93Now, would I be asking if I\'92d heard?\'94 Jack said.\par
\'93It\'92s been all over the TV for crissake,\'94 Calvin snapped.\par
\'93Jack doesn\'92t own a TV,\'94 Laurie said. \'93His neighborhood won\'92t allow it.\'94\par
\'93Where do you live, son?\'94 Sergeant Murphy asked. \'93I\'92ve never heard of neighbors not allowing each other to have a television.\'94 The aging, red-faced, Irish policeman had a pronounced paternal streak. He\'92d been assigned to the medical examiner\'92s office for more years than he was willing to admit and thought of all the employees as family.\par
\'93He lives in Harlem,\'94 Chet said. \'93Actually his neighbors would love him to get a set so they could permanently borrow it.\'94\par
\'93Enough, you guys,\'94 Jack said. \'93Fill me in on the excitement.\'94\par
\'93A Mafia don was gunned down yesterday late afternoon,\'94 Calvin\'92s booming voice announced. \'93It\'92s stirred up a hornet\'92s nest of trouble since he\'92d agreed to cooperate with the DA\'92s office and was under police protection.\'94\par
\'93He was no Mafia don,\'94 Lou Soldano said. \'93He was nothing but a mid-level functionary of the Vaccarro crime family.\'94\par
\'93Whatever,\'94 Calvin said with a wave of his hand. \'93The key point is that he was whacked while literally boxed in by a number of New York\'92s finest, which doesn\'92t say much about their ability to protect someone in their charge.\'94\par
\'93He was warned not to go to that restaurant,\'94 Lou protested. \'93I know that for a fact. And it\'92s almost impossible to protect someone if the individual refuses to follow suggestions.\'94\par
\'93Any chance he could have been killed by the police?\'94 Jack asked. One of the roles of a medical examiner was to think of all angles, especially when situations of custody were concerned.\par
\'93He wasn\'92t under arrest,\'94 Lou said, guessing what was going through Jack\'92s mind. \'93He\'92d been arrested and indicted, but he was out on bail.\'94\par
\'93So what\'92s the big deal?\'94 Jack asked.\par
\'93The big deal is that the mayor, the district attorney, and the police commissioner are all under a lot of heat,\'94 Calvin said.\par
\'93Amen,\'94 Lou said. \'93Particularly the police commissioner. That\'92s why I\'92m here. It\'92s turning into one of those public-relations nightmares that the media loves to blow way out of proportion. We\'92ve got to apprehend the perpetrator or perpetrators ASAP, otherwise heads are going to roll.\'94\par
\'93And not to discourage future potential witnesses,\'94 Jack said.\par
\'93Yeah, that too,\'94 Lou said.\par
\'93I don\'92t know, Laurie,\'94 Calvin said, getting back to the discussion they\'92d been having before Jack\'92s interruption. \'93I appreciate you coming in early and offering to do this autopsy, but maybe Bingham might want to do it himself.\'94\par
\'93But why?\'94 Laurie complained. \'93Look, it\'92s a straightforward case, and I\'92ve recently done a lot of gunshot wounds. Besides, with Dr. Bingham\'92s budget meeting this morning at City Hall, he can\'92t be here until almost noon. By then I can have the autopsy done and whatever information I come up with will be in the hands of the police. With their time constraint, it makes the most sense.\'94\par
Calvin looked at Lou. \'93Do you think five or six hours will make a difference with the investigation?\'94\par
\'93It could,\'94 Lou admitted. \'93Hell, the sooner the autopsy is done the better. I mean, just knowing if we\'92re looking for one or two people will be a big help.\'94\par
Calvin sighed. \'93I hate this kind of decision.\'94 He shifted his massive two-hundred-and-fifty-pound muscular bulk from one foot to the other. \'93Trouble is, half the time I can\'92t anticipate Bingham\'92s reaction. But what the hell! Go for it, Laurie. The case is yours.\'94\par
\'93Thanks, Calvin,\'94 Laurie said gleefully. She snatched up the folder from the table. \'93Is it okay if Lou observes?\'94\par
\'93By all means,\'94 Calvin said.\par
\'93Come on, Lou!\'94 Laurie said. She rescued her coat from a chair and started for the door. \'93Let\'92s head downstairs, do a quick external exam, and have the body X-rayed. In the confusion last night it apparently wasn\'92t done.\'94\par
\'93I\'92m right behind you,\'94 Lou said.\par
Jack hesitated for a moment then hurried after them. He was mystified why Laurie was so interested in doing the autopsy. From his perspective she would have done better to stay clear. Such politically charged cases were always hot potatoes. You couldn\'92t win.\par
Laurie was moving quickly, and Jack didn\'92t catch up to her and Lou until they were beyond communications. Laurie stopped abruptly to lean into Janice Jaeger\'92s office. Janice was one of the forensic investigators, also called physicians\'92 assistants or PAs. Janice ran the graveyard shift and took her job very seriously. She always stayed late.\par
\'93Will you be seeing Bart Arnold before you leave?\'94 Laurie asked Janice. Bart Arnold was the chief of the PAs.\par
\'93I usually do,\'94 Janice said. She was a tiny, dark-haired woman with prominent circles under her eyes.\par
\'93Do me a favor,\'94 Laurie said. \'93Ask him to call CNN and get a copy of the video of Carlo Franconi\'92s assassination. I\'92d like to have it as soon as possible.\'94\par
\'93Will do,\'94 Janice said cheerfully.\par
Laurie and Lou continued on their way.\par
\'93Hey, slow down, you two,\'94 Jack said. He had to run a couple of steps to catch up to them.\par
\'93We\'92ve got work to do,\'94 Laurie said without breaking stride.\par
\'93I\'92ve never seen you so eager to do an autopsy,\'94 Jack said. He and Lou flanked her as she hurried to the autopsy room. \'93What\'92s the attraction?\'94\par
\'93A lot of things,\'94 Laurie said. She reached the elevator and pressed the button.\par
\'93Give me an example,\'94 Jack said. \'93I don\'92t mean to rain on your parade, but this is a politically sensitive case. No matter what you do or say, you\'92ll be irritating someone. I think Calvin was right. This one ought to be done by the chief.\'94\par
\'93You\'92re entitled to your opinion,\'94 Laurie said. She hit the button again. The back elevator was inordinately slow. \'93But I feel differently. With the work I\'92ve been doing on the forensics of gunshot wounds, I\'92m fascinated to have a case where there is a video of the event to corroborate my reconstruction of what happened. I was planning on writing a paper on gunshot wounds, and this could be the crowning case.\'94\par
\'93Oh, dear,\'94 Jack moaned, raising his eyes heavenward. \'93And her motivations were so noble.\'94 Then looking back at Laurie he said: \'93I think you should reconsider! My intuition tells me you\'92re only going to get yourself into a bureaucratic headache. And there\'92s still time to avoid it. All you have to do is turn around and go back and tell Calvin you\'92ve changed your mind. I\'92m warning you, you\'92re taking a risk.\'94\par
Laurie laughed. \'93You are the last person to advise me about risk.\'94 She reached out and touched Jack on the end of his nose with her index finger. \'93Everyone who knows you, me included, pleaded with you not to get that new bike. You\'92re risking your life, not a headache.\'94\par
The elevator arrived, and Laurie and Lou boarded. Jack hesitated but then squeezed through the doors just before they closed.\par
\'93You are not going to talk me out of this,\'94 Laurie said. \'93So save your breath.\'94\par
\'93Okay,\'94 Jack said, raising his hands in mock surrender. \'93I promise: no more advice. Now, I\'92m just interested in watching this story unfold. It\'92s a paper day for me today, so if you don\'92t mind, I\'92ll watch.\'94\par
\'93You can do more than that if you want,\'94 Laurie said. \'93You can help.\'94\par
\'93I\'92m sensitive about horning in on Lou.\'94 His double entendre was intended.\par
Lou laughed, Laurie blushed, but the comment went unacknowledged.\par
\'93You implied there were other reasons for your interest in this case,\'94 Jack said. \'93If you don\'92t mind my asking, what are they?\'94\par
Laurie cast a quick glance at Lou that Jack saw but couldn\'92t interpret.\par
\'93Hmmm,\'94 Jack said. \'93I\'92m getting the feeling there\'92s something going on here that isn\'92t any of my business.\'94\par
\'93Nothing like that,\'94 Lou volunteered. \'93It\'92s just an unusual connection. The victim, Carlo Franconi, had taken the place of a midlevel crime hoodlum named Pauli Cerino. Cerino\'92s position had become vacant after Cerino was thrown in the slammer, mostly due to Laurie\'92s persistence and hard work.\'94\par
\'93And yours, too,\'94 Laurie added as the elevator jerked to a stop and the doors opened.\par
\'93Yeah, but mostly yours,\'94 Lou said.\par
The three got off on the basement level and headed in the direction of the mortuary office.\par
\'93Did the Cerino case involve that series of overdoses you\'92ve made reference to?\'94 Jack asked Laurie.\par
\'93I\'92m afraid so,\'94 Laurie said. \'93It was awful. The experience terrified me, and the problem is some of the characters are still around, including Cerino although he\'92s in jail.\'94\par
\'93And not likely to be released for a long time,\'94 Lou added.\par
\'93Or so I\'92d like to believe,\'94 Laurie said. \'93Anyway, I\'92m hoping that doing the post on Franconi might provide me with some closure. I still have nightmares occasionally.\'94\par
\'93They sealed her in a pine coffin to abduct her from here,\'94 Lou said. \'93She was taken away in one of the mortuary vans.\'94\par
\'93My god!\'94 Jack said to Laurie. \'93You never told me about that.\'94\par
\'93I try not to think about it,\'94 Laurie said. Then without missing a beat she added: \'93You guys wait out here.\'94\par
Laurie ducked into the mortuary office to get a copy of the list of refrigerator compartments assigned to the cases that had come in the previous night.\par
\'93I can\'92t imagine getting closed in a coffin,\'94 Jack said. He shuddered. Heights were his main phobia but tight, confining spaces came a close second.\par
\'93Nor can I,\'94 Lou agreed. \'93But she was able to recover remarkably. An hour or so after being released she had the presence of mind to figure out how to save us both. That was particularly humbling since I\'92d gone there to save her.\'94\par
\'93Jeez!\'94 Jack said with a shake of his head. \'93Up until this minute I thought my getting handcuffed to a sink by a couple of killers who were arguing over who was going to do me in was the worst-case scenario.\'94\par
Laurie came out of the office waving a sheet of paper. \'93Compartment one eleven,\'94 she said. \'93And I was right. The body wasn\'92t X-rayed.\'94\par
Laurie took off like a power walker. Jack and Lou had to hustle to catch up with her. She made a beeline for the proper compartment. Once there she slipped the autopsy folder under her left arm and used her right hand to release the latch. In one, smooth, practiced motion, she swung open the door and slid out the tray on its ball bearings.\par
Laurie\'92s brow furrowed.\par
\'93That\'92s odd!\'94 she remarked. The tray was empty save for a few blood stains and hardened secretions.\par
Laurie slid the tray back in and closed the door. She rechecked the number. There\'92d been no mistake. It was compartment one eleven.\par
After looking at the list once again to make certain she\'92d not misread the number, she reopened the compartment door, shielded her eyes from the glare of the overhead lights, and peered into the depths of the dark interior. There was no doubt: the compartment did not contain Carlo Franconi\'92s remains.\par
\'93What the hell!\'94 Laurie complained. She slammed the insulated door. And just to be sure there wasn\'92t some stupid logistic error, she opened up all the neighboring compartments one after the other. In those which contained bodies, she checked the names and accession numbers. But it soon became obvious: Carlo Franconi was not among them.\par
\'93I don\'92t believe this,\'94 Laurie said with angry frustration. \'93The damn body is gone!\'94\par
A smile had appeared on Jack\'92s face from the moment compartment one eleven had proved to be empty. Now, facing Laurie\'92s exasperated frown, he couldn\'92t help himself. He laughed heartily. Unfortunately his laughter further piqued Laurie.\par
\'93I\'92m sorry,\'94 Jack managed. \'93My intuition told me this case was going to give you a bureaucratic headache. I was wrong. It\'92s going to give the bureaucracy a headache.\'94\par
\par
\par
\pard\qj\fs32 CHAPTER 2\par
\pard\fi283\qj\fs24\par
\pard\qr MARCH 4, 1997\par
1:30 P.M.\par
COGO, EQUATORIAL GUINEA\par
\pard\fi283\qj\par
\pard\qj KEVIN Marshall put down his pencil and looked out the window above his desk. In contrast to his inner turmoil, the weather outside was rather pleasant with the first patches of blue sky that Kevin had seen for months. The dry season had finally begun. Of course it wasn\'92t dry; it just didn\'92t rain nearly as much as during the wet season. The downside was that the more consistent sun made the temperature soar to ovenlike levels. At the moment it hovered at one hundred and fifteen degrees in the shade.\par
\pard\fi283\qj Kevin had not worked well that morning nor had he slept during the night. The anxiety he\'92d felt the previous day at the commencement of the surgery had not abated. In fact, it had gotten worse, especially after the unexpected call from the GenSys CEO, Taylor Cabot. Kevin had only spoken with the man on one previous occasion. Most people in the company equated the experience with talking with God.\par
Adding to Kevin\'92s unease was seeing another wisp of smoke snaking its way up into the sky from Isla Francesca. He\'92d noticed it when he\'92d first arrived at the lab that morning. As near as he could tell it was coming from the same location as the day before: the sheer side of the limestone escarpment. The fact that the smoke was no longer apparent failed to comfort him.\par
Giving up on any attempt at further work, Kevin peeled off his white lab coat and draped it over his chair. He wasn\'92t particularly hungry, but he knew his housekeeper, Esmeralda, would have made lunch, so he felt obliged to make an appearance.\par
Kevin descended the three flights of stairs in a preoccupied daze. Several co-workers passed him and said hello, but it was as if Kevin did not see them. He was too preoccupied. In the last twenty-four hours he\'92d come to realize that he would have to take action. The problem wasn\'92t going to pass as he\'92d hoped it would a week previously when he\'92d first glimpsed the smoke.\par
Unfortunately, he had no idea what to do. He knew he was no hero; in fact, over the years he\'92d come to think of himself as a coward of sorts. He hated confrontation and avoided it. As a boy, he had even shunned competition except for chess. He\'92d grown up pretty much a loner.\par
Kevin paused at the glass door to the exterior. Across the square he could see the usual coterie of Equatoguinean soldiers beneath the arches of the old town hall. They were up to their usual sedentary pursuits, aimlessly passing the time of the day. Some were sitting in old rattan furniture playing cards, others were leaning up against the building arguing with each other in strident voices. Almost all of them were smoking. Cigarettes were part of their wages. They were dressed in soiled, jungle-camouflage fatigues with scuffed combat boots and red berets. All of them had automatic assault rifles either slung over their shoulders or within arm\'92s reach.\par
From the moment of Kevin\'92s arrival at Cogo five years previously, the soldiers had scared him. Cameron McIvers, head of security, who had initially shown Kevin around, told him that GenSys had hired a good portion of the Equatoguinean army for protection. Later Cameron had admitted that the army\'92s so-called employment was in reality an additional payoff to the government as well as to the Minister of Defense and the Minister of Territorial Administration.\par
From Kevin\'92s perspective the soldiers looked more like a bunch of aimless teenagers than protectors. Their complexions were like burnished ebony. Their blank expressions and arched eyebrows gave them a look of superciliousness that reflected their boredom. Kevin always had the uncomfortable sense they were itching to have an excuse to use their weapons.\par
Kevin pushed through the door and walked across the square. He didn\'92t look in the direction of the soldiers, but from past experience he knew at least some of them were watching him, and it made his skin crawl. Kevin didn\'92t know a word of Fang, the major local dialect, so he had no idea what they were saying.\par
Once out of sight of the central square Kevin relaxed a degree and slowed his pace. The combination of heat and hundred-percent humidity was like a perpetual steam bath. Any activity caused a sweat. After only a few minutes, Kevin could feel his shirt beginning to adhere to his back.\par
Kevin\'92s house was situated a little more than halfway between the hospital-lab complex and the waterfront, a distance of only three blocks. The town was small but had obviously been charming in its day. The buildings had been constructed primarily of brightly colored stucco with red tile roofs. Now the colors had faded to pale pastels. The shutters were the type that hinged at the top. Most were in a terrible state of disrepair except for the ones on the renovated buildings. The streets had been laid out in an unimaginative grid but had been paved over the years with imported granite that had served as sailing ships\'92 ballast. In Spanish colonial times the town\'92s wealth had come from agriculture, particularly cocoa and coffee production, and it had graciously supported a population of several thousand people.\par
But the town\'92s history changed dramatically after 1959, the year of Equatorial Guinea\'92s independence. The new president, Macias Nguema, quickly metamorphosed from a popularly elected official to the continent\'92s worst, sadistic dictator whose atrocities managed to out-class even those of Idi Amin of Uganda and Jean-Bedel Bokassa of the Central African Republic. The effect on the country was apocalyptic. After fifty thousand people were murdered, a third of the population of the entire country fled, including all the Spanish settlers. Most of the country\'92s towns were decimated, particularly Cogo which had been completely abandoned. The road connecting Cogo to the rest of the country fell into ruin and quickly became impassable.\par
For a number of years, the town was fated to be a mere curiosity for the occasional visitor arriving by small motorboat from the coastal town of Acalayong. The jungle had begun to reclaim the land by the time a representative of GenSys had happened upon it seven years previously. This individual recognized Cogo\'92s isolation and its limitless surrounding rain forest as the perfect spot for GenSys intended primate facility. Returning to Malabo, the capital of Equatorial Guinea, the GenSys official immediately commenced negotiations with the current Equatoguinean government. Since the country was one of the poorest of Africa and consequently desperate for foreign exchange, the new president was eager and negotiations proceeded apace.\par
Kevin rounded the last corner and approached his house. It was three stories like most of the other buildings in the town. It had been tastefully renovated by GenSys to give it storybook appeal. In fact it was one of the more desirable houses in the whole town and a source of envy of a number of the other GenSys employees, particularly head of security, Cameron McIvers. Only Siegfried Spallek, manager of the Zone, and Bertram Edwards, chief veterinarian, had accommodations that were equivalent. Kevin had attributed his good luck to intercession on his behalf by Dr. Raymond Lyons, but he didn\'92t know for certain.\par
The house had been built in the mid-nineteenth century by a successful import/exporter in traditional Spanish style. The first floor was arched and arcaded like the town hall and had originally housed shops and storage facilities. The second floor was the main living floor with three bedrooms, three baths, a large through-and-through living room, a dining room, a kitchen, and a tiny maid\'92s apartment. It was surrounded by a veranda on all four sides. The third floor was an enormous open room with wide-plank flooring illuminated with two huge, cast-iron chandeliers. It was capable of holding a hundred people with ease and had apparently been used for mass meetings.\par
Kevin entered and climbed a central stairway that led up to a narrow hall. From there he went into the dining room. As he expected, the table had been laid for lunch.\par
The house was too big for Kevin, especially since he didn\'92t have a family. He\'92d said as much when he\'92d first been shown the property, but Siegfried Spallek had told him the decision had been made in Boston and warned Kevin not to complain. So Kevin accepted the assignment, but his co-workers\'92 envy often made him feel uncomfortable.\par
As if by magic Esmeralda appeared. Kevin wondered how she did it so consistently. It was as if she were always on the lookout for his approaching the house. She was a pleasant woman of indeterminate age with rounded features and sad eyes. She dressed in a shift of brightly colored print fabric with a matching scarf wrapped tightly around her head. Besides her native tongue, she spoke fluent Spanish and passable English that improved on a daily basis.\par
Esmeralda lived in the maid\'92s quarters Monday through Friday. Over the weekend she stayed with her family in a village that GenSys had constructed to the east along the banks of the estuary to house the many local workers employed in the Zone, as the area occupied by GenSys\'92s Equatoguinean operation was called. She and her family had been moved there from Bata, the main city on the Equatoguinean mainland. The capital of the country, Malabo, was on an island called Bioko.\par
Kevin had encouraged Esmeralda to go home in the evenings during the week if she so desired, but she declined. When Kevin persisted, she told him she\'92d been ordered to remain in Cogo.\par
\'93There is a phone message for you,\'94 Esmeralda said.\par
\'93Oh,\'94 Kevin said nervously. His pulse quickened. Phone messages were rare, and in his current state he did not need any more unexpected events. The call in the middle of the night from Taylor Cabot had been disturbing enough.\par
\'93It was from Dr. Raymond Lyons in New York,\'94 Esmeralda said. \'93He wants you to call him back.\'94\par
The fact that the call was from overseas did not surprise Kevin. With the satellite communications GenSys had installed in the Zone, it was far easier to call Europe or the U.S. than Bata, a mere sixty miles to the north. Calls to Malabo were almost impossible.\par
Kevin started for the living room. The phone was on a desk in the corner.\par
\'93Will you be eating lunch?\'94 Esmeralda asked.\par
\'93Yes,\'94 Kevin said. He still wasn\'92t hungry but he didn\'92t want to hurt Esmeralda\'92s feelings.\par
Kevin sat down at his desk. With his hand on the phone he quickly calculated it was about eight o\'92clock in the morning in New York. He pondered what Dr. Lyons had called about but guessed it had something to do with his brief conversation with Taylor Cabot. Kevin did not like the idea of an autopsy on Carlo Franconi, and he didn\'92t imagine that Raymond Lyons would either.\par
Kevin had first met Raymond six years previously. It was during a meeting in New York of the American Association for the Advancement of Science where Kevin presented a paper. Kevin hated giving papers and rarely did, but on this occasion he\'92d been forced to do so by the chief of his department at Harvard. Dating back to his Ph.D. thesis his interest was the transposition of chromosomes: a process by which chromosomes exchanged bits and pieces to enhance species adaption and hence evolution. This phenomenon happened particularly frequently during the generation of sex cells: a process known as meiosis.\par
By coincidence, during the same meeting and at the same time Kevin was scheduled to present, James Watson and Francis Crick gave an immensely popular talk on the anniversary of their discovery of the structure of DNA. Consequently, very few people came to hear Kevin. One of the attendees had been Raymond. It was after this talk that Raymond first approached Kevin. The conversation resulted in Kevin\'92s leaving Harvard and coming to work for GenSys.\par
With a slightly shaky hand Kevin picked up the receiver and dialed. Raymond answered on the first ring, suggesting he\'92d been hovering over the phone. The connection was crystal clear as if he were in the next room.\par
\'93I\'92ve got good news,\'94 Raymond said as soon as he knew it was Kevin. \'93There\'92s to be no autopsy.\'94\par
Kevin didn\'92t respond. His mind was a jumble.\par
\'93Aren\'92t you relieved?\'94 Raymond asked. \'93I know Cabot called you last night.\'94\par
\'93I\'92m relieved to an extent,\'94 Kevin said. \'93But autopsy or no autopsy, I\'92m having second thoughts about this whole operation.\'94\par
Now it was Raymond\'92s turn to be silent. No sooner had he solved one potential problem than another was rearing its unwelcome head.\par
\'93Maybe we\'92ve made a mistake,\'94 Kevin said. \'93What I mean is, maybe I\'92ve made a mistake. My conscience is starting to bother me, and I\'92m getting a little scared. I\'92m really a basic science person. This applied science is not my thing.\'94\par
\'93Oh, please!\'94 Raymond said irritably. \'93Don\'92t complicate things! Not now. I mean, you\'92ve got that lab you\'92ve always wanted. I\'92ve beat my brains out getting you every damn piece of equipment that you\'92ve asked for. And on top of that, things are going so well, especially with my recruiting. Hell, with all the stock options you\'92re amassing, you\'92ll be a rich man.\'94\par
\'93I\'92ve never intended on being rich,\'94 Kevin said.\par
\'93Worse things could happen,\'94 Raymond said. \'93Come on, Kevin! Don\'92t do this to me.\'94\par
\'93And what good is being rich when I have to be out here in the heart of darkness?\'94 Kevin said. Unwittingly his mind conjured up the image of the manager, Siegfried Spallek. Kevin shuddered. He was terrified of the man.\par
\'93It\'92s not forever,\'94 Raymond said. \'93You told me yourself, you\'92re almost there, that the system is nearly perfect. When it is and you\'92ve trained someone to take your place, you can come back here. With your money you\'92ll be able to build the lab of your dreams.\'94\par
\'93I\'92ve seen more smoke coming from the island,\'94 Kevin said. \'93Just like last week.\'94\par
\'93Forget the smoke!\'94 Raymond said. \'93You\'92re letting your imagination run wild. Instead of working yourself up into a frenzy over nothing, concentrate on your work so you can finish. If you\'92ve got some free time, start fantasizing about the lab you\'92ll be building back here state-side.\'94\par
Kevin nodded. Raymond had a point. Part of Kevin\'92s concern was that if what he\'92d been involved with in Africa became common knowledge, he might never be able to go back to academia. No one would hire him much less give him tenure. But if he had his own lab and an independent income, he wouldn\'92t have to worry.\par
\'93Listen,\'94 Raymond said. \'93I\'92ll be coming to pick up the last patient when he\'92s ready, which should be soon. We\'92ll talk again then. Meanwhile just remember that we\'92re almost there and money is pouring into our offshore coffers.\'94\par
\'93All right,\'94 Kevin said reluctantly.\par
\'93Just don\'92t do anything rash,\'94 Raymond said. \'93Promise me!\'94\par
\'93All right,\'94 Kevin repeated with slightly more enthusiasm.\par
Kevin hung up the phone. Raymond was a persuasive person, and whenever Kevin spoke to him, Kevin inevitably felt better.\par
Kevin pushed back from the desk and walked back to the dining room. Following Raymond\'92s advice he tried to think of where he\'92d build his lab. There were some strong arguments for Cambridge, Massachusetts, because of the associations Kevin had with both Harvard and MIT. But then again maybe it would be better to be out in the countryside like up in New Hampshire.\par
Lunch was a white fish that Kevin didn\'92t recognize. When he inquired about it, Esmeralda gave him only the name in Fang, which meant nothing to Kevin. He surprised himself by eating more than he\'92d expected. The conversation with Raymond had had a positive effect on his appetite. The idea of having his own lab still held inordinate appeal.\par
After eating, Kevin changed his damp shirt for a clean, freshly ironed one. He was eager to get back to work. As he was about to descend the stairs, Esmeralda inquired when he wanted dinner. He told her seven, the usual time.\par
While Kevin had been lunching a leaden group of gray lavender clouds had rolled in from the ocean. By the time he emerged from his front door, it was pouring, and the street in front of his house was a cascade as the runoff raced down to the waterfront. Looking south over the Estuario del Muni, Kevin could see a line of bright sunshine as well as the arch of a complete rainbow. The weather in Gabon was still clear. Kevin was not surprised. There had been times when it had rained on one side of the street and not the other.\par
Guessing the rain would continue for at least the next hour, Kevin skirted his house beneath the protection of the arcade and climbed into his black Toyota utility vehicle. Although it was a ridiculously short drive back to the hospital, Kevin felt it was better to ride than be wet for the rest of the afternoon.\par
\par
\par
\pard\qj\fs32 CHAPTER 3\par
\pard\fi283\qj\fs24\par
\pard\qr MARCH 4, 1997\par
8:45 A.M.\par
NEW YORK CITY\par
\pard\fi283\qj\par
\pard\qj\'93WELL, what do you want to do?\'94 Franco Ponti asked while looking at his boss, Vinnie Dominick, in the rearview mirror. They were in Vinnie\'92s Lincoln Town-car. Vinnie was in the backseat, leaning forward with his right hand holding onto the overhead strap. He was looking out at 126 East 64th Street. It was a brownstone built in a French rococo style with high-arched, multipaned windows. The first-floor windows were heavily barred for protection.\par
\pard\fi283\qj\'93Looks like pretty posh digs,\'94 Vinnie said. \'93The good doctor is doing okay for himself.\'94\par
\'93Should I park?\'94 Franco asked. The car was in the middle of the street, and the taxi behind them was honking insistently.\par
\'93Park!\'94 Vinnie said.\par
Franco drove ahead until he came to a fire hydrant. He pulled to the curb. The taxi went past, the driver frantically giving them the finger. Angelo Facciolo shook his head and made a disparaging comment about expatriate Russian taxi drivers. Angelo was sitting in the front passenger seat.\par
Vinnie climbed out of the car. Franco and Angelo quickly followed suit. All three men were impeccably dressed in long, Salvatore Ferragamo overcoats in varying shades of gray.\par
\'93You think the car will be okay?\'94 Franco asked.\par
\'93I anticipate this will be a short meeting,\'94 Vinnie said. \'93But put the Police Benevolent Association Commendation on the dash. Might as well save fifty bucks.\'94\par
Vinnie walked back to number 126. Franco and Angelo trailed in their perpetually vigilant style. Vinnie looked at the door intercom. \'93It\'92s a duplex,\'94 Vinnie said. \'93I guess the doctor isn\'92t doing quite as well as I thought.\'94 Vinnie pressed the button for Dr. Raymond Lyons and waited.\par
\'93Hello?\'94 a feminine voice inquired.\par
\'93I\'92m here to see the doctor,\'94 Vinnie said. \'93My name is Vinnie Dominick.\'94\par
There was a pause. Vinnie played with a bottle cap with the tip of his Gucci loafer. Franco and Angelo looked up and down the street.\par
The intercom crackled back to life. \'93Hello, this is Dr. Lyons. Can I help you?\'94\par
\'93I believe so,\'94 Vinnie said. \'93I need about fifteen minutes of your time.\'94\par
\'93I\'92m not sure I know you, Mr. Dominick,\'94 Raymond said. \'93Could you tell me what this is in reference to?\'94\par
\'93It\'92s in reference to a favor I did for you last night,\'94 Vinnie said. \'93The request had come through a mutual acquaintance, Dr. Daniel Levitz.\'94\par
There was a pause.\par
\'93I trust you are still there, Doctor,\'94 Vinnie said.\par
\'93Yes, of course,\'94 Raymond said. A raucous buzzing sounded. Vinnie pushed open the heavy door and entered. His minions followed.\par
\'93I don\'92t think the good doctor is terribly excited to see us,\'94 Vinnie quipped as they rode up in the small elevator. The three men were pressed together like cigars in a triple pack.\par
Raymond met his visitors as they exited the lift. He was obviously nervous as he shook hands with all three after the introductions. He gestured for them to enter his apartment and then showed them into a small, mahogany-paneled study.\par
\'93Coffee anyone?\'94 Raymond asked.\par
Franco and Angelo looked at Vinnie.\par
\'93I wouldn\'92t turn down an expresso if it\'92s not too much trouble,\'94 Vinnie said. Franco and Angelo said they\'92d have the same.\par
Raymond used his desk phone to place the order.\par
Raymond\'92s worst fears had materialized the moment he\'92d caught sight of his uninvited guests. From his perspective they appeared like stereotypes from a grade-B movie. Vinnie was about five-ten, darkly complected and handsome, with full features and slicked-back hair. He was obviously the boss. The other two men were both over six feet and gaunt. Their noses and lips were thin and their eyes were beady and deeply set. They could have been brothers. The main difference in their appearance was the condition of Angelo\'92s skin. Raymond thought it looked like the far side of the moon.\par
\'93Can I take your coats?\'94 Raymond asked.\par
\'93We don\'92t intend on staying too long,\'94 Vinnie said.\par
\'93At least sit down,\'94 Raymond said.\par
Vinnie relaxed into a leather armchair. Franco and Angelo sat stiffly on a velvet-covered settee. Raymond sat behind his desk.\par
\'93What can I do for you gentlemen?\'94 Raymond said, trying to assume a confident air.\par
\'93The favor we did for you last night was not easy to pull off,\'94 Vinnie said. \'93We thought you\'92d like to know how it was arranged.\'94\par
Raymond let out a little, mirthless laugh through a weak smile. He held up his hands as if to ward off something coming his way. \'93That\'92s not necessary. I\'92m certain you\~.\~.\~.\'94\par
\'93We insist,\'94 Vinnie interrupted. \'93It makes good business sense. You see, we wouldn\'92t like you to think that we didn\'92t make a significant effort on your behalf.\'94\par
\'93I wouldn\'92t think that for a moment,\'94 Raymond said.\par
\'93Well, just to be sure,\'94 Vinnie said. \'93You see, getting a body out of the morgue is no easy task, since they are open for business twenty-four hours a day, and they have a uniformed security man on duty at all times.\'94\par
\'93This isn\'92t necessary,\'94 Raymond said. \'93I\'92d rather not be privy to the details, but I\'92m very appreciative of your efforts.\'94\par
\'93Be quiet, Dr. Lyons, and listen!\'94 Vinnie said. He paused for a moment to organize his thoughts. \'93We were lucky because Angelo here knows a kid named Vinnie Amendola, who works in the morgue. This kid was beholden to Pauli Cerino, a guy Angelo used to work for but who is currently in jail. Angelo now works for me, and knowing what he knows, he was able to convince the kid to tell us exactly where Mr. Franconi\'92s remains were stored. The kid was also able to tell us some other information so we\'92d have some reason to be there in the middle of the night.\'94\par
At that moment the expresses arrived. They were brought in by Darlene Poison, whom Raymond introduced as his assistant. As soon as the coffees were distributed, Darlene left.\par
\'93Good-looking assistant,\'94 Vinnie said.\par
\'93She\'92s very efficient,\'94 Raymond commented. Unconsciously, he wiped his brow.\par
\'93I hope we\'92re not making you feel uncomfortable,\'94 Vinnie said.\par
\'93No, not at all,\'94 Raymond said a bit too quickly.\par
\'93So we got the body out okay,\'94 Vinnie said. \'93And we disposed of it so it is gone. But as you can understand, it was not a walk in the park. In fact it was one big pain in the ass since we had so little time to plan it.\'94\par
\'93Well, if there is ever some favor I can do for you,\'94 Raymond commented after an uncomfortable pause in the conversation.\par
\'93Thank you, Doctor,\'94 Vinnie said. He polished off his expresso like he was drinking a shot. He put the cup and saucer on the corner of the desk. \'93You\'92ve said exactly what I was hoping you\'92d say, which brings me to why I\'92m here. Now, you probably know I\'92m a client just like Franconi was. More important, my eleven-year-old son, Vinnie Junior, is also a client. In fact, he\'92s more apt to need your services than I am. So we\'92re facing two tuitions, as you people call it. What I\'92d like to propose is that I don\'92t pay anything this year. What do you say?\'94\par
Raymond\'92s eyes dropped to his desk surface.\par
\'93What we\'92re talking about is a favor for a favor,\'94 Vinnie said. \'93It\'92s only fair.\'94\par
Raymond cleared his throat. \'93I\'92ll have to talk to the powers that be,\'94 he said.\par
\'93Now, that\'92s the first unfriendly thing you\'92ve said,\'94 Vinnie added. \'93My information is that \i you\i0  are the so-called \'93powers that be.\'94 So I find this foot-dragging insulting. I\'92ll change my offer. I won\'92t pay any tuition this year or next year. I hope you comprehend the direction this conversation is taking.\'94\par
\'93I understand,\'94 Raymond said. He swallowed with obvious effort. \'93I\'92ll take care of it.\'94\par
Vinnie stood up. Franco and Angelo did likewise. \'93That\'92s the spirit,\'94 Vinnie said. \'93So I\'92ll count on your talking with Dr. Daniel Levitz and let him know about our understanding.\'94\par
\'93Of course,\'94 Raymond said. He got to his feet.\par
\'93Thank you for the coffee,\'94 Vinnie said. \'93It hit the spot. My compliments to your assistant.\'94\par
Raymond closed the apartment door after the hoodlums had left and leaned against it. His pulse was racing. Darlene appeared in the doorway leading to the kitchen.\par
\'93Was it as bad as you feared?\'94 she asked.\par
\'93Worse!\'94 Raymond said. \'93They behaved perfectly in character. Now I\'92ve got to deal with petty mobsters demanding a free ride. I tell you, what else can go wrong?\'94\par
Raymond pushed off the door and started toward his study. After only two steps he wobbled. Darlene reached out and supported his arm.\par
\'93Are you okay?\'94 she demanded.\par
Raymond waited for a moment before nodding. \'93Yeah, I\'92m all right,\'94 he said. \'93Just a bit dizzy. Thanks to this Franconi flap, I didn\'92t sleep a wink last night.\'94\par
\'93Maybe you should put off the meeting you\'92ve planned with the new prospective doctor,\'94 Darlene suggested.\par
\'93I think you\'92re right,\'94 Raymond said. \'93In this state, I probably couldn\'92t convince anyone to join our group even if they were on their way to bankruptcy court.\'94\par
\par
\par
\pard\qj\fs32 CHAPTER 4\par
\pard\fi283\qj\fs24\par
\pard\qr MARCH 4, 1997\par
7:00 P.M.\par
NEW YORK CITY\par
\pard\fi283\qj\par
\pard\qj LAURIE finished preparing the salad greens, put a paper towel over the bowl, and slipped it into the refrigerator. Then she mixed the dressing, a simple combination of olive oil, fresh garlic, and white vinegar, with just a touch of balsamic. She put that in the refrigerator as well. Turning her attention to the lamb loin, she trimmed off the small amount of fat the butcher had left, put the meat into a marinade she\'92d made earlier, and then stuck it into the refrigerator with the other makings. The last chore was preparing the artichokes. It took only a moment to cut off the excess base and a few of the large, stringy leaves.\par
\pard\fi283\qj Wiping her hands on the dish towel, Laurie glanced up at the wall clock. Familiar with Jack\'92s schedule, she thought it was exactly the time to call. She used the wall phone next to the sink.\par
As the connection went through, she could imagine Jack coming up the cluttered stairwell in his dilapidated building. Although she thought she understood why he\'92d originally rented his apartment, she had trouble comprehending why he stayed. The building was so depressing. On the other hand, as she glanced around at her own flat, she had to admit, there wasn\'92t a lot of difference once Jack got inside his unit except he had almost double the space.\par
The phone rang at the other end. Laurie counted the rings. When she got to ten she began to doubt her familiarity with his schedule. She was about to hang up when Jack answered.\par
\'93Yeah?\'94 he said unceremoniously. He was out of breath.\par
\'93Tonight\'92s your lucky night,\'94 Laurie said.\par
\'93Who is this?\'94 Jack asked. \'93Is that you, Laurie?\'94\par
\'93You sound out of breath,\'94 Laurie said. \'93Does that mean you lost at basketball?\'94\par
\'93No, it means I ran up four flights of stairs to get the phone,\'94 Jack said. \'93What\'92s happening? Don\'92t tell me you\'92re still at work?\'94\par
\'93Heavens, no,\'94 Laurie said. \'93I\'92ve been home for an hour.\'94\par
\'93So why is this my lucky night?\'94 Jack asked.\par
\'93I stopped by Gristede\'92s on the way home and picked up the makings of your favorite dinner,\'94 Laurie said. \'93It\'92s all ready to go into the broiler. All you have to do is shower and get yourself down here.\'94\par
\'93And I thought I owed you an apology for laughing at the vanishing mafioso,\'94 Jack said. \'93If amends are needed it\'92s surely from my side.\'94\par
\'93There\'92s no atonement involved,\'94 Laurie said. \'93I would just enjoy your company. But there\'92s one condition.\'94\par
\'93Uh-oh,\'94 Jack said. \'93What?\'94\par
\'93No bike tonight,\'94 Laurie said. \'93You have to come by cab or the deal\'92s off.\'94\par
\'93Taxis are more dangerous than my bike,\'94 Jack complained.\par
\'93No argument,\'94 Laurie said. \'93Take it or leave it. If and when you slide under a bus and end up on a slab in the pit, I don\'92t want to feel responsible.\'94 Laurie felt her face flush. It was an issue she didn\'92t even like to joke about.\par
\'93Okay,\'94 Jack said agreeably. \'93I should be there in thirty-five to forty minutes. Shall I bring some wine?\'94\par
\'93That would be great,\'94 Laurie said.\par
Laurie was pleased. She\'92d been unsure if Jack would accept the invitation. Over the previous year they had been seeing each other socially, and several months ago, Laurie had admitted to herself that she\'92d fallen in love with him. But Jack seemed reluctant to allow the relationship to progress to the next level of commitment. When Laurie tried to force the issue, Jack had responded by distancing himself. Feeling rejected, Laurie had responded with anger. For weeks, they only spoke on a professional basis.\par
Over the last month their relationship had slowly improved. They were seeing each other again casually. This time Laurie realized that she had to bide her time. The problem was that at age thirty-seven it was not easy. Laurie had always wanted to become a mother someday. With forty fast approaching, she felt she was running out of time.\par
With the dinner essentially prepared, Laurie went around her small one-bedroom apartment straightening up. That meant putting odd books back into their spots on the shelves, stacking medical journals neatly, and emptying Tom\'92s litter box. Tom was her six-and-a-half-year-old tawny tabby who was still as wild as he\'92d been as a kitten. Laurie straightened the Klimt print that the cat always knocked askew on his daily route from the bookcase to the top of the valence over the window.\par
Next Laurie took a quick shower, changed into a turtleneck and jeans, and put on a touch of makeup. As she did so she glared at the crow\'92s feet that had been developing at the corners of her eyes. She didn\'92t feel any older than when she\'92d gotten out of medical school, yet there was no denying the advance of years.\par
Jack arrived on schedule. When Laurie looked through the peephole, all she could see was a bloated image of his broadly grinning face, which he had positioned a mere inch from the lens. She smiled at his antics as she undid the host of locks that secured her door.\par
\'93Get in here, you clown!\'94 Laurie said.\par
\'93I wanted to be sure you recognized me,\'94 Jack said as he stepped past her. \'93My chipped, upper-left incisor has become my trademark.\'94\par
Just as Laurie was closing her door she caught a glimpse of her neighbor, Mrs. Engler, who\'92d cracked her door to see who was visiting Laurie. Laurie glared at her. She was such a busybody.\par
The dinner was a success. The food was perfect and the wine was okay. Jack\'92s excuse was that the liquor store closest to his apartment specialized in jug wine, not the better stuff.\par
During the course of the evening, Laurie had to continually bite her tongue to keep the conversation away from sensitive areas. She would have loved to talk about their relationship, but she didn\'92t dare. She sensed that some of Jack\'92s hesitance stemmed from his extraordinary personal tragedy. Six years previously, his wife and two daughters had been tragically killed in a commuter-plane crash. Jack had told Laurie about it after they had been dating for several months, but then refused to talk about it again. Laurie sensed that this loss was the biggest stumbling block to their relationship. In a way, this belief helped her to take Jack\'92s reluctance to commit himself less personally.\par
Jack had no trouble keeping the conversation light. He\'92d had a good evening playing pickup basketball at his neighborhood playground and was happy to talk about it. By chance he\'92d been teamed up with Warren, an all-around impressive African-American, who was the leader of the local gang and by far the best player. Jack and Warren\'92s team didn\'92t lose all evening.\par
\'93How is Warren?\'94 Laurie asked. Jack and Laurie had frequently double-dated with Warren and his girlfriend, Natalie Adams. Laurie hadn\'92t seen either of them since before she and Jack had their falling-out.\par
\'93Warren\'92s Warren,\'94 Jack said. He shrugged. \'93He\'92s got so much potential. I\'92ve tried my best to get him to take some college courses, but he resists. He says my value system isn\'92t his, so I\'92ve given up.\'94\par
\'93And Natalie?\'94\par
\'93Fine, I guess,\'94 Jack said. \'93I haven\'92t seen her since we all went out.\'94\par
\'93We should do it again,\'94 Laurie said. \'93I miss seeing them.\'94\par
\'93That\'92s an idea,\'94 Jack said evasively.\par
There was a pause. Laurie could hear Tom\'92s purring. After eating and cleaning up, Jack moved to the couch. Laurie sat across from him in her art-deco club chair she\'92d purchased in the Village.\par
Laurie sighed. She felt frustrated. It seemed juvenile that they couldn\'92t talk about emotionally important issues.\par
Jack checked his watch. \'93Uh-oh!\'94 he said. He moved himself forward so that he was sitting on the very edge of the couch. \'93It\'92s quarter to eleven,\'94 Jack added. \'93I\'92ve got to be going. It\'92s a school night and bed is beckoning.\'94\par
\'93More wine?\'94 Laurie asked. She held up the jug. They\'92d only drunk a quarter of it.\par
\'93I can\'92t,\'94 Jack said. \'93I\'92ve got to keep my reflexes sharp for the cab ride home.\'94 He stood up and thanked Laurie for the meal.\par
Laurie put down the wine and got to her feet. \'93If you don\'92t mind, I\'92d like to ride with you as far as the morgue.\'94\par
\'93What?\'94 Jack questioned. He scrunched up his face in disbelief. \'93You\'92re not going to work at this hour? I mean, you\'92re not even on call.\'94\par
\'93I just want to question the night mortuary tech and security,\'94 Laurie said, as she went to the hall closet for their coats.\par
\'93What on earth for?\'94 Jack asked.\par
\'93I want to figure out how Franconi\'92s body disappeared,\'94 Laurie said. She handed Jack his bomber jacket. \'93I talked to the evening crew when they came on this afternoon.\'94\par
\'93And what did they tell you?\'94\par
\'93Not a whole bunch,\'94 Laurie said. \'93The body came in around eight forty-five with an entourage of police and media. Apparently it was a circus. I guess that\'92s why the X ray was overlooked. Identification was made by the mother\'97a very emotional scene by all reports. By ten forty-five the body was placed in the fridge in compartment one eleven. So I think it\'92s pretty clear the abduction occurred during the night shift from eleven to seven.\'94\par
\'93Why are you worrying yourself about this?\'94 Jack said. \'93This is the front office\'92s problem.\'94\par
Laurie pulled on her coat and got her keys. \'93Let\'92s just say that I\'92ve taken a personal interest in the case.\'94\par
Jack rolled his eyes as they exited into the hall. \'93Laurie!\'94 he intoned. \'93You\'92re going to get yourself in trouble over this. Mark my word.\'94\par
Laurie pushed the elevator button then glared at Mrs. Engler, who\'92d cracked her door as usual.\par
\'93That woman drives me crazy,\'94 Laurie said as they boarded the elevator.\par
\'93You\'92re not listening to me,\'94 Jack said.\par
\'93I\'92m listening,\'94 Laurie said. \'93But I\'92m still going to look into this. Between this stunt and my run-in with Franconi\'92s predecessor, it irks me that these two-bit mobsters think they can do whatever they please. They think laws are for other people. Pauli Cerino, the man Lou mentioned this morning, had people killed so that he didn\'92t have to wait too long to have corneal transplants. That gives you an idea of their ethics. I don\'92t like the idea that they think they can just come into our morgue and walk off with the body of a man they just killed.\'94\par
They emerged onto Nineteenth Street and walked toward First Avenue. Laurie put up her collar. There was a breeze off the East River, and it was only in the twenties.\par
\'93What makes you think the mobsters are behind this?\'94 Jack asked.\par
\'93You don\'92t have to be a rocket scientist to assume as much,\'94 Laurie said. She put up her hand as a cab approached, but it zoomed past without slowing. \'93Franconi was going to testify as part of a plea bargain. The higher-ups of the Vaccarro organization got angry or scared or both. It\'92s an old story.\'94\par
\'93So they killed him,\'94 Jack said. \'93Why take the body?\'94\par
Laurie shrugged. \'93I\'92m not going to pretend I can put my mind into a mobster\'92s,\'94 she said. \'93I don\'92t know why they wanted the body. Maybe to deny him a proper burial. Maybe they\'92re afraid an autopsy would provide a clue to the killer\'92s identity. Hell, I don\'92t know. But ultimately it doesn\'92t matter why.\'94\par
\'93I have a sense the \'91why\'92 might be important,\'94 Jack said. \'93I think by getting involved you\'92ll be skating on thin ice.\'94\par
\'93Maybe so,\'94 Laurie said. She shrugged again. \'93I get caught up in things like this. I suppose part of the problem is that at the moment my main focus in life is my job.\'94\par
\'93Here comes a free cab,\'94 Jack said, deliberately avoiding having to respond to Laurie\'92s last comment. He sensed the implications and was reluctant to get drawn into a more personal discussion.\par
It was a short cab ride down to the corner of First Avenue and Thirtieth Street. Laurie climbed out and was surprised when Jack did the same.\par
\'93You don\'92t have to come,\'94 Laurie said.\par
\'93I know,\'94 Jack said. \'93But I\'92m coming anyway. In case you haven\'92t guessed, you have me concerned.\'94\par
Jack leaned back inside the cab and paid the driver.\par
Laurie was still insisting that Jack\'92s presence was not needed as they walked between the Health and Hospital\'92s mortuary vans. They entered the morgue through the Thirtieth Street entrance. \'93I thought you told me your bed was beckoning?\'94\par
\'93It can wait,\'94 Jack said. \'93After Lou\'92s story about your getting carted out of here nailed in a coffin, I think I should tag along.\'94\par
\'93That was a totally different situation,\'94 Laurie said.\par
\'93Oh, yeah?\'94 Jack questioned. \'93It involved mobsters just like now.\'94\par
Laurie was about to protest further when Jack\'92s comment struck a chord. She had to admit there were parallels.\par
The first person they came to was the night security man sitting in his cubbyhole office. Carl Novak was an elderly, affable, gray-haired man who appeared to have shrunk inside his uniform that was at least two sizes too big. He was playing solitaire but looked up when Laurie and Jack passed by his window and stopped in his open doorway.\par
\'93Can I help you?\'94 Carl asked. Then he recognized Laurie and apologized for not having done so sooner.\par
Laurie asked him if he\'92d been informed of Franconi\'92s body\'92s disappearance.\par
\'93By all means,\'94 Carl said. \'93I got called at home by Robert Harper, head of security. He was up in arms about it and asked me all sorts of questions.\'94\par
It didn\'92t take Laurie long to learn that Carl had little light to shed on the mystery. He insisted that nothing out of the ordinary happened. Bodies had come in and bodies had gone out, just the way they did every night of the year. He admitted having left his post twice during his shift to visit the men\'92s room. He emphasized that on both occasions, he\'92d only been gone for a few minutes and that each time he\'92d informed the night mortuary tech, Mike Passano.\par
\'93What about meals?\'94 Laurie asked.\par
Carl pulled open a file drawer of his metal desk and lifted out an insulated lunch box. \'93I eat right here.\'94\par
Laurie thanked him and moved on. Jack followed.\par
\'93The place certainly looks different at night,\'94 Jack commented as they passed the wide hall that led down to the refrigerators and the autopsy room.\par
\'93It\'92s a bit sinister without the usual daytime hubbub,\'94 Laurie admitted.\par
They looked into the mortuary office and found Mike Passano busy with some receiving forms. A body had recently been brought in that had been fished out of the ocean by the Coast Guard. He looked up when he sensed company.\par
Mike was in this early thirties, spoke with a strong Long Island accent, and looked decidedly Southern Italian. He was slight of build with sharply defined facial features. He had dark hair, dark skin, and dark eyes. Neither Laurie nor Jack had worked with him although they had met him on multiple occasions.\par
\'93Did you docs come in to see the floater?\'94 Mike asked.\par
\'93No,\'94 Jack said. \'93Is there a problem?\'94\par
\'93No problem,\'94 Mike said. \'93It\'92s just in bad shape.\'94\par
\'93We\'92ve come to talk about last night,\'94 Laurie said.\par
\'93What about it?\'94 Mike asked.\par
Laurie posed the same questions she\'92d put to Carl. To her surprise, Mike quickly became irritated. She was about to say as much when Jack tugged on her arm and motioned for her to retreat to the hall.\par
\'93Ease off,\'94 Jack recommended when they were beyond earshot.\par
\'93Ease off from what?\'94 Laurie asked. \'93I\'92m not being confrontational.\'94\par
\'93I agree,\'94 Jack said. \'93I know I\'92m the last person to be an expert in office politics or interpersonal relations, but Mike sounds defensive to me. If you want to get any information out of him, I think you have to take that into consideration and tread lightly.\'94\par
Laurie thought for a minute then nodded. \'93Maybe you\'92re right.\'94\par
They returned to the mortuary office, but before Laurie could say anything, Mike said: \'93In case you didn\'92t know, Dr. Washington telephoned this morning and woke me up about all this. He read me the riot act. But I did my normal job last night, and I certainly didn\'92t have anything to do with that body disappearing.\'94\par
\'93I\'92m sorry if I implied that you did,\'94 Laurie said. \'93All I\'92m saying is that I believe the body disappeared during your shift. That\'92s not saying you are responsible in any way.\'94\par
\'93It sort\'92a sounds that way,\'94 Mike said. \'93I mean, I\'92m the only one here besides security and the janitors.\'94\par
\'93Did anything happen out of the ordinary?\'94 Laurie asked.\par
Mike shook his head. \'93It was a quiet night. We had two bodies come in and two go out.\'94\par
\'93What about the bodies that arrived?\'94 Laurie asked. \'93Did they come in with our people?\'94\par
\'93Yup, with our vans,\'94 Mike said. \'93Jeff Cooper and Peter Molina. Both bodies were from local hospitals.\'94\par
\'93What about the two bodies that went out?\'94 Laurie asked.\par
\'93What about them?\'94\par
\'93Well, who was it that came to pick them up?\'94\par
Mike grabbed the mortuary logbook from the corner of his desk and cracked it open. His index finger traced down the column then stopped. \'93Spoletto Funeral Home in Ozone Park and Dickson Funeral Home in Summit, New Jersey.\'94\par
\'93What were the names of the deceased?\'94 Laurie asked.\par
Mike consulted the book. \'93Frank Gleason and Dorothy Kline. Their accession numbers are 100385 and 101455. Anything else?\'94\par
\'93Were you expecting these particular funeral homes to come?\'94 Laurie asked.\par
\'93Yeah, of course,\'94 Mike said. \'93They\'92d called beforehand just like always.\'94\par
\'93So you had everything ready for them?\'94\par
\'93Sure,\'94 Mike said. \'93I had the paperwork all done. They just had to sign off.\'94\par
\'93And the bodies?\'94 Laurie asked.\par
\'93They were in the walk-in cooler as usual,\'94 Mike said. \'93Right in the front on gurneys.\'94\par
Laurie looked at Jack. \'93Can you think of anything else to ask?\'94\par
Jack shrugged. \'93I think you\'92ve pretty well covered the bases except when Mike was off the floor.\'94\par
\'93Good point!\'94 Laurie said. Turning back to Mike she said: \'93Carl told us that when he left for the men\'92s room twice last night, he contacted you. Do you contact Carl whenever you need to leave your post?\'94\par
\'93Always,\'94 Mike said. \'93We\'92re often the only ones down here. We have to have someone guarding the door.\'94\par
\'93Were you away from the office very long last night?\'94 Laurie asked.\par
\'93Nope,\'94 Mike said. \'93No more than usual. Couple of times to the head and a half hour for lunch up on the second floor. I\'92m telling you, it was a normal night.\'94\par
\'93What about the janitors?\'94 Laurie asked. \'93Were they around?\'94\par
\'93Not during my shift,\'94 Mike said. \'93Generally they clean down here evenings. The night shift is upstairs unless there is something out of the ordinary going on.\'94\par
Laurie tried to think of additional questions but couldn\'92t. \'93Thanks, Mike,\'94 she said.\par
\'93No problem,\'94 Mike said.\par
Laurie started for the door but stopped. Turning around she asked: \'93By any chance did you happen to see Franconi\'92s body?\'94\par
Mike hesitated a second before admitting that he had.\par
\'93What was the circumstance?\'94 Laurie asked.\par
\'93When I get to work Marvin, the evening tech, usually briefs me about what\'92s going on. He was kind of psyched about the Franconi situation because of all the police and the way the family carried on. Anyway, he showed me the body.\'94\par
\'93When you saw it, was it in compartment one eleven?\'94\par
\'93Yup.\'94\par
\'93Tell me, Mike,\'94 Laurie said. \'93If you had to guess, how do you think the body disappeared?\'94\par
\'93I don\'92t have the foggiest idea,\'94 Mike said. \'93Unless he walked out of here.\'94 He laughed, then seemed embarrassed. \'93I don\'92t mean to joke around. I\'92m as confused as everybody else. All I know is only two bodies went out of here last night, and they were the two I checked out.\'94\par
\'93And you never looked at Franconi again after Marvin showed him to you?\'94\par
\'93Of course not,\'94 Mike said. \'93Why would I?\'94\par
\'93No reason,\'94 Laurie said. \'93Do you happen to know where the van drivers are?\'94\par
\'93Upstairs in the lunchroom,\'94 Mike said. \'93That\'92s where they always are.\'94\par
Laurie and Jack took the elevator. As they were riding up, Laurie noticed Jack\'92s eyelids were drooping.\par
\'93You look tired,\'94 Laurie commented.\par
\'93No surprise. I am,\'94 Jack said.\par
\'93Why don\'92t you go home?\'94 Laurie said.\par
\'93I\'92ve stuck it out this far,\'94 Jack said. \'93I think I\'92ll see it to the bitter end.\'94\par
The bright fluorescent lighting of the lunchroom made both Laurie and Jack squint. They found Jeff and Pete at a table next to the vending machines, poring over newspapers while snacking on potato chips. They were dressed in rumpled blue coveralls with Health and Hospital Corporation patches on their upper arms. Both had ponytails.\par
Laurie introduced herself, explained about her interest in the missing body, and asked if there was anything unique about the previous night, particularly about the two bodies they\'92d brought in.\par
Jeff and Pete exchanged a look, then Pete responded.\par
\'93Mine was a mess,\'94 Pete said.\par
\'93I don\'92t mean the bodies themselves,\'94 Laurie said. \'93I\'92m wondering if there was anything unusual about the process. Did you see anyone in the morgue you didn\'92t recognize? Did anything out of the ordinary happen?\'94\par
Pete glanced again at Jeff then shook his head. \'93Nope. It was just like usual.\'94\par
\'93Do you remember what compartment you put your body into?\'94 Laurie asked.\par
Pete scratched the top of his head. \'93Not really,\'94 he said.\par
\'93Was it near to one eleven?\'94 Laurie asked.\par
Pete shook his head. \'93No, it was around the other side. Something like fifty-five. I don\'92t remember exactly. But it\'92s written downstairs.\'94\par
Laurie turned to Jeff.\par
\'93My body went into twenty-eight,\'94 Jeff said. \'93I remembered because that\'92s how old I am.\'94\par
\'93Did either of you see Franconi\'92s body?\'94 Laurie asked.\par
The two drivers again exchanged glances. Jeff spoke: \'93Yeah, we did.\'94\par
\'93What time?\'94\par
\'93Around now,\'94 Jeff said.\par
\'93What was the circumstance?\'94 Laurie said. \'93You guys don\'92t normally see bodies that you don\'92t transport.\'94\par
\'93After Mike told us about it, we wanted to look because of all the excitement. But we didn\'92t touch anything.\'94\par
\'93It was only for a second,\'94 Pete added. \'93We just opened the door and looked in.\'94\par
\'93Were you with Mike?\'94 Laurie asked.\par
\'93No,\'94 Pete said. \'93He just told us which compartment.\'94\par
\'93Has Dr. Washington talked to you about last night?\'94 Laurie asked.\par
\'93Yeah, and Mr. Harper, too,\'94 Jeff said.\par
\'93Did you tell Dr. Washington about looking at the body?\'94 Laurie asked.\par
\'93No,\'94 Jeff said.\par
\'93Why not?\'94 Laurie asked.\par
\'93He didn\'92t ask,\'94 Jeff said. \'93I guess we know we\'92re really not supposed to do it. I mean we don\'92t usually. But, as I said, with all the commotion, we were curious.\'94\par
\'93Maybe you should tell Dr. Washington,\'94 Laurie suggested. \'93Just so he has all the facts.\'94\par
Laurie turned around and headed back to the elevator. Jack dutifully followed.\par
\'93What do you think?\'94 Laurie asked.\par
\'93It\'92s getting harder and harder for me to think the closer it gets to midnight,\'94 Jack said. \'93But I wouldn\'92t make anything of those two peeking at the body.\'94\par
\'93But Mike didn\'92t mention it,\'94 Laurie said.\par
\'93True,\'94 Jack said. \'93But they all know they were bending the rules. It\'92s human nature in such a situation not to be completely forthcoming.\'94\par
\'93Maybe so,\'94 Laurie said with a sigh.\par
\'93Where to now?\'94 Jack asked as they boarded the elevator.\par
\'93I\'92m running out of ideas,\'94 Laurie said.\par
\'93Thank God,\'94 Jack said.\par
\'93Don\'92t you think I should ask Mike why he didn\'92t tell us about the van drivers looking at Franconi?\'94 Laurie asked.\par
\'93You could, but I think you\'92re just spinning your wheels,\'94 Jack said. \'93Truly, I can\'92t imagine it was anything but harmless curiosity.\'94\par
\'93Then let\'92s call it a night,\'94 Laurie said. \'93Bed is sounding good to me, too.\'94\par
\par
\par
\pard\qj\fs32 CHAPTER 5\par
\pard\fi283\qj\fs24\par
\pard\qr MARCH 5, 1997\par
10:15 A.M.\par
COGO, EQUATORIAL GUINEA\par
\pard\fi283\qj\par
\pard\qj KEVIN replaced the tissue culture flasks in the incubator and closed the door. He\'92d been working since before dawn. His current quest was to find a transponase to handle a minor histocompatibility gene on the Y chromosome. It had been eluding him for over a month despite his use of the technique that had resulted in his finding and isolating the transponases associated with the short arm of chromosome 6.\par
\pard\fi283\qj Kevin\'92s usual schedule was to arrive at the lab around eight-thirty, but that morning he\'92d awakened at four \scaps a.m\scaps0 . and had not been able to fall back to sleep. After tossing and turning for three-quarters of an hour, he\'92d decided he might as well use the time for good purpose. He\'92d arrived at his lab at five \scaps a.m\scaps0 . while it was still pitch dark.\par
What was troubling Kevin\'92s sleep was his conscience. The nagging notion that he\'92d made a Promethean mistake resurfaced with a vengeance. Although Dr. Lyons\'92s mention of building his own lab had assuaged him at the time, it didn\'92t last. Lab of his dreams or no, he couldn\'92t deny the horror he feared was evolving on Isla Francesca.\par
Kevin\'92s feelings had nothing to do with seeing more smoke. He hadn\'92t, but as dawn broke, he\'92d also consciously avoided looking out the window much less in the direction of the island.\par
Kevin realized he couldn\'92t go on like this. He decided that the most rational course of action would be to find out if his fears were justified. The best way to do it, he surmised, was to approach someone close to the situation who might be able to shed some light on Kevin\'92s area of concern. But Kevin didn\'92t feel comfortable talking with many people in the Zone. He\'92d never been very social, especially in Cogo, where he was the sole academician. But there was one working in the Zone with whom he felt slightly more comfortable, mainly because he admired his work: Bertram Edwards, the chief veterinarian.\par
Impulsively Kevin removed his lab coat, draped it over his chair, and headed out of his office. Descending to the first floor, he exited into the steamy heat of the parking area north of the hospital. The morning weather was clear, with white, puffy cumuli clouds overhead. There were some dark rain clouds looming, but they were out over the ocean in a clump along the western horizon; if they brought rain, it wouldn\'92t be before the afternoon.\par
Kevin climbed into his Toyota four-wheel drive and turned right out of the hospital parking lot. Traversing the north side of the town square, he passed the old Catholic church. GenSys had renovated the building to function as the recreational center. On Friday and Saturday nights they showed movies. Monday nights they had bingo. In the basement was a commissary serving American hamburgers.\par
Bertram Edwards\'92s office was at the veterinary center that was part of the far larger animal unit. The entire complex was bigger than Cogo itself. It was situated north of the town in a dense equatorial rain forest and separated from the town by a stretch of virgin jungle.\par
Kevin\'92s route took him east as far as the motor-pool facility, where he turned north. The traffic, which was considerable for such a remote spot, reflected the difficult logistics of running an operation the size of the Zone. Everything from toilet paper to centrifuge tubes had to be imported, which necessitated moving a lot of goods. Most supplies came by truck from Bata, where there was a crude deep-water port and an airport capable of handling large jet aircraft. The Estuario del Muni with access to Libreville, Gabon, was only served by motorized canoes.\par
At the edge of town the granite cobblestone street gave way to newly laid asphalt. Kevin let out a sigh of relief. The sound and the vibration that came up the steering column from the cobblestones was intense.\par
After fifteen minutes of driving through a canyon of dark green vegetation, Kevin could see the first buildings of the state-of-the-art animal complex. They were constructed of prestressed concrete and cinder block that was stuccoed and painted white. The design had a Spanish flare to complement the Colonial architecture of the town.\par
The enormous main building looked more like an airport terminal than a primate housing facility. Its front facade was three stories tall and perhaps five hundred feet long. From the back of the structure projected multiple wings that literally disappeared into the canopy of vegetation. Several smaller buildings faced the main one. Kevin wasn\'92t sure of their purpose except for two buildings in the center. One housed the complex\'92s contingent of Equatoguinean soldiers. Just like their comrades in the town square, these soldiers were aimlessly sprawled about with their rifles, cigarettes, and Cameroonean beer. The other building was the headquarters of a group that Kevin found even more disturbing than the teenage soldiers. These were Moroccan mercenaries who were part of the Equatoguinean presidential guard. The local president didn\'92t trust his own army.\par
These foreign special-forces commandos dressed in inappropriate and ill-fitting dark suits and ties, with obvious bulges from their shoulder holsters. Every one of them had dark skin, piercing eyes, and a heavy mustache. Unlike the soldiers they were rarely seen, but their presence was felt like a sinister evil force.\par
The sheer size of the GenSys animal center was a tribute to its success. Recognizing the difficulties attached to primate biomedical research, GenSys had sited their facility in Equatorial Africa where the animals were indigenous. This move cleverly sidestepped the industrialized West\'92s inconvenient web of import/export restrictions associated with primates, as well as the disruptive influence of animal-rights zealots. As an added incentive, the foreign exchange-starved local government and its venal leaders were inordinately receptive to all a company like GenSys had to offer. Obstructive laws were conveniently overlooked or abolished. The legislature was so accommodating that it even passed a law making interference with GenSys a capital offense.\par
The operation proved to be extraordinarily successful so quickly that GenSys expanded it to serve as a convenient spot for other biotechnology companies, especially pharmaceutical giants, to out-source their primate testing. The growth shocked the GenSys economic forecasters. From every point of view, the Zone was an impressive financial success.\par
Kevin parked next to another four-wheel-drive vehicle. He knew it was Dr. Edwards\'92s from the bumper sticker that said: Man is an Ape. He pushed through the double doors with \'93Veterinary Center\'94 stenciled on the glass. Dr. Edwards\'92s office and examining rooms were just inside the door.\par
Martha Blummer greeted him. \'93Dr. Edwards is in the chimpanzee wing,\'94 she said. Martha was the veterinary secretary. Her husband was one of the supervisors at the motor pool.\par
Kevin set off for the chimpanzee wing. It was one of the few areas in the building he was at all acquainted with. He went through a second pair of double doors and walked the length of the central corridor of the veterinary hospital. The facility looked like a regular hospital, down to its employees who were all dressed in surgical scrubs, many with stethoscopes draped over their necks.\par
A few people nodded, others smiled, and some said hello to Kevin. He returned the greetings self-consciously. He didn\'92t know any of these people by name.\par
Another pair of double doors brought him into the main part of the building that housed the primates. The air had a slightly feral odor. Intermittent shrieks and howls reverberated in the corridor. Through doors with windows of wire-embedded glass, Kevin caught glimpses of large cages where monkeys were incarcerated. Outside the cages were men in coveralls and rubber boots, pulling hoses.\par
The chimpanzee wing was one of the ells that extended from the back of the building into the forest. It, too, was three stories tall. Kevin entered on the first floor. Immediately the sounds changed. Now there was as much hooting as shrieking.\par
Cracking a door off the central corridor, Kevin got the attention of one of the workers in the coveralls. He asked about Dr. Edwards and was told the vet was in the bonobo unit.\par
Kevin found a stairwell and climbed to the second floor. He thought it was a coincidence that Dr. Edwards happened to be in the bonobo unit just when Kevin was looking for him. It was through bonobos that Kevin and Dr. Edwards had met.\par
Six years ago Kevin had never heard of a bonobo. But that changed rapidly when bonobos were selected as the subjects for his GenSys project. He now knew they were exceptional creatures. They were cousins of chimpanzees but had lived in isolation in a twenty-five-thousand-square-mile patch of virginal jungle in central Zaire for one and a half million years. In contrast to chimps, bonobo society was matriarchal with less male aggression. Hence, the bonobos were able to live in larger groups. Some people called them pygmy chimpanzees but the name was a misnomer because some bonobos were actually larger than some chimpanzees, and they were a distinct species.\par
Kevin found Dr. Edwards in front of a relatively small acclimatization cage. He was reaching through the bars making tentative contact with an adult female bonobo.\par
Another female bonobo was sitting against the back wall of the cage. Her eyes were nervously darting around her new accommodations. Kevin could sense her terror.\par
Dr. Edwards was hooting softly in imitation of one of the many bonobo and chimpanzee sounds of communication. He was a relatively tall man, a good three or four inches over Kevin\'92s five foot ten. His hair was a shocking white which contrasted dramatically with his almost black eyebrows and eyelashes. The sharply demarcated eyebrows combined with a habit of wrinkling his forehead gave him a perpetually surprised look.\par
Kevin watched for a moment. Dr. Edwards\'92s obvious rapport with the animals had been something Kevin had appreciated from their first meeting. Kevin sensed it was an intuitive talent and not something learned, and it always impressed him.\par
\'93Excuse me,\'94 Kevin said finally.\par
Dr. Edwards jumped as if he\'92d been frightened. Even the bonobo shrieked and fled to the back of the cage.\par
\'93I\'92m terribly sorry,\'94 Kevin said.\par
Dr. Edwards smiled and put a hand to his chest. \'93No need to be sorry. I was just so intent I didn\'92t hear you approach.\'94\par
\'93I certainly didn\'92t mean to frighten you, Dr. Edwards,\'94 Kevin began, \'93but I\~.\~.\~.\'94\par
\'93Kevin, please! If I\'92ve told you once, I\'92ve told you a dozen times: my name is Bertram. I mean, we\'92ve known each other for five years. Don\'92t you think first names are more appropriate?\'94\par
\'93Of course,\'94 Kevin said.\par
\'93It\'92s serendipitous you should come,\'94 Bertram said. \'93Meet our two newest breeding females.\'94 Bertram gestured toward the two apes who\'92d inched away from the back wall. Kevin\'92s arrival had frightened them, but they were now curious.\par
Kevin gazed in at the dramatically anthropomorphic faces of the two primates. Bonobo\'92s faces were less prognathous than their cousins, the chimpanzees, and hence considerably more human. Kevin always found looking into bonobos\'92 eyes disconcerting.\par
\'93Healthy-appearing animals,\'94 Kevin commented, not knowing how else to respond.\par
\'93They were just trucked in from Zaire this morning,\'94 Bertram said. \'93It\'92s about a thousand miles as the crow flies. But by the circuitous route they had to take to get across the borders of the Congo and Gabon, they probably traveled three times that.\'94\par
\'93That\'92s the equivalent of driving across the U.S.,\'94 Kevin said.\par
\'93In terms of distance,\'94 Bertram agreed. \'93But here they probably didn\'92t see more than short stretches of pavement. It\'92s an arduous trip no matter how you look at it.\'94\par
\'93They look like they are in good shape,\'94 Kevin said. He wondered how he\'92d appear if he\'92d made the journey jammed into wooden boxes and hidden in the back of a truck.\par
\'93By this time I\'92ve got the drivers pretty well trained,\'94 Bertram said. \'93They treat \'92em better than they treat their own wives. They know if the apes die, they don\'92t get paid. It\'92s a pretty good incentive.\'94\par
\'93With our demand going up they\'92ll be put to good use,\'94 Kevin said.\par
\'93You\'92d better believe it,\'94 Bertram said. \'93These two are already spoken for, as you know. If they pass all the tests, which I\'92m certain they will, we\'92ll be over to your lab in the next couple of days. I want to watch again. I think you are a genius. And Melanie\~.\~.\~. Well, I\'92ve never seen such hand-eye coordination, even if you include an eye surgeon I used to know back in the States.\'94\par
Kevin blushed at the reference to himself. \'93Melanie is quite talented,\'94 he said to deflect the conversation. Melanie Becket was a reproductive technologist. GenSys had recruited her mainly for Kevin\'92s project.\par
\'93She\'92s good,\'94 Bertram said. \'93But the few of us lucky enough to be associated with your project know that you are the hero.\'94\par
Bertram looked up and down the space between the wall of the corridor and the cages to make sure that none of the coverall-clad workers were in earshot.\par
\'93You know, when I signed on to come over here I thought my wife and I would do well,\'94 Bertram said. \'93Moneywise I thought it would be as lucrative as going to Saudi Arabia. But we\'92re doing better than I\'92d ever dreamed. Through your project and the stock options that come along with it, we\'92re going to get rich. Just yesterday I heard from Melanie that we have two more clients from New York City. That will put us over one hundred.\'94\par
\'93I hadn\'92t heard about the two additional clients,\'94 Kevin said.\par
\'93No? Well it\'92s true,\'94 Bertram said. \'93Melanie told me last night when I bumped into her at the rec center. She said she spoke with Raymond Lyons. I\'92m glad she informed me so I could send the drivers back to Zaire for another shipment. All I can say is that I hope our pygmy colleagues in Lomako can keep up their end of the bargain.\'94\par
Kevin looked back into the cage at the two females. They returned his stare with pleading expressions that melted Kevin\'92s heart. He wished he could tell them that they had nothing to fear. All that would happen to them was that they would become pregnant within the month. During their pregnancies they\'92d be kept indoors and would be treated to special, nutritious diets. After their babies were born, they\'92d be put in the enormous bonobo outdoor enclosure to rear the infants. When the youngsters reached age three the cycle would be repeated.\par
\'93They sure are human-looking,\'94 Bertram said, interrupting Kevin\'92s musing. \'93Sometimes you can\'92t help but wonder what they are thinking.\'94\par
\'93Or worry what their offspring are capable of thinking,\'94 Kevin said.\par
Bertram glanced at Kevin. His black eyebrows arched more than usual. \'93I don\'92t follow,\'94 he said.\par
\'93Listen, Bertram,\'94 Kevin said. \'93I came over here specifically to talk to you about the project.\'94\par
\'93How marvelously convenient,\'94 Bertram said. \'93I was going to call you today and have you come over to see the progress we\'92ve made. And here you are. Come on!\'94\par
Bertram pulled open the nearest door to the corridor, motioned for Kevin to follow, and set out with long strides. Kevin had to hurry to catch up.\par
\'93Progress?\'94 Kevin questioned. Although he admired Bertram, the man\'92s tendency toward manic behavior was disconcerting. Under the best of circumstances Kevin would have had trouble discussing what was on his mind. Just broaching the issue was difficult, and Bertram was not helping. In fact, he was making it impossible.\par
\'93You bet\'92cha progress!\'94 Bertram said enthusiastically. \'93We solved the technical problems with the grid on the island. It\'92s on line now as you\'92ll see. We can locate any individual animal with the push of a button. It\'92s just in time, I might add. With twelve square miles and almost a hundred individuals, it was fast becoming impossible with the handheld trackers. Part of the problem is that we didn\'92t anticipate the creatures would split into two separate sociological groups. We were counting on their being one big happy family.\'94\par
\'93Bertram,\'94 Kevin said between breaths, marshaling his courage. \'93I wanted to talk to you because I\'92ve been anxious\~.\~.\~.\'94\par
\'93It\'92s no wonder,\'94 Bertram said as Kevin paused. \'93I\'92d be anxious, too, if I put in the hours that you put in without any form of relaxation or release. Hell, sometimes I see the light in your lab as late as midnight when the wife and I come out of the rec center after a movie. We\'92ve even commented on it. We\'92ve invited you to dinner at our house on several occasions to draw you out a little. How come you never come?\'94\par
Kevin groaned inwardly. This was not the conversation he wanted to get into.\par
\'93All right, you don\'92t have to answer,\'94 Bertram said. \'93I don\'92t want to add to your anxiety. We\'92d enjoy having you over, so if you change your mind, give us a call. But what about the gym or the rec center or even the pool? I\'92ve never seen you in any of those places. Being stuck here in this hothouse part of Africa is bad enough, but making yourself a prisoner of your lab or house just makes it worse.\'94\par
\'93I\'92m sure you are right,\'94 Kevin said. \'93But\~.\~.\~.\'94\par
\'93Of course I\'92m right,\'94 Bertram said. \'93But there is another side to this that I should warn you about. People are talking.\'94\par
\'93What do you mean?\'94 Kevin asked. \'93Talking about what?\'94\par
\'93People are saying that you\'92re aloof because you think you are superior,\'94 Bertram said. \'93You know, the academician with all his fancy degrees from Harvard and MIT. It\'92s easy for people to misinterpret your behavior, especially if they are envious.\'94\par
\'93Why would anybody be envious of me?\'94 Kevin asked. He was shocked.\par
\'93Very easy,\'94 Bertram said. \'93You obviously get special treatment from the home office. You get a new car every two years, and your quarters are as good as Siegfried Spallek\'92s, the manager for the entire operation. That\'92s bound to raise some eyebrows, particularly from people like Cameron McIvers who was stupid enough to bring his whole damn family out here. Plus you got that NMR machine. The hospital administrator and I have been lobbying for an MRI since day one.\'94\par
\'93I tried to talk them out of giving me the house,\'94 Kevin said. \'93I said it was too big.\'94\par
\'93Hey, you don\'92t have to defend your perks to me,\'94 Bertram said. \'93I understand because I\'92m privy to your project. But very few other people are, and some of them aren\'92t happy. Even Spallek doesn\'92t quite understand although he definitely likes participating in the bonus your project has brought those of us who are lucky enough to be associated.\'94\par
Before Kevin could respond, Bertram was stopped for a series of corridor consultations. He and Bertram had been traversing the veterinary hospital. Kevin used the interruption to ponder Bertram\'92s comments. Kevin had always thought of himself as being rather invisible. The idea that he\'92d engendered animosities was hard to comprehend.\par
\'93Sorry,\'94 Bertram offered after the final consult. He pushed through the last of the double doors. Kevin followed.\par
Passing his secretary, Martha, he picked up a small stack of phone messages. He leafed through them as he waved Kevin into his inner office. He closed his door.\par
\'93You\'92re going to love this,\'94 Bertram said, tossing the messages aside. He sat down in front of his computer and showed Kevin how to bring up a graphic of Isla Francesca. It was divided into a grid. \'93Now give me the number of whatever creature you want to locate.\'94\par
\'93Mine,\'94 Kevin said. \'93Number one.\'94\par
\'93Coming up,\'94 Bertram said. He entered the information and clicked. Suddenly a red blinking light appeared on the map of the island. It was north of the limestone escarpment but south of the stream that had been humorously dubbed Rio Diviso. The stream bisected the six-by-two-mile island lengthwise, flowing east to west. In the center of the island was a pond they\'92d called Lago Hippo for obvious reasons.\par
\'93Pretty slick, huh?\'94 Bertram said proudly.\par
Kevin was captivated. It wasn\'92t so much by the technology, although that interested him. It was more because the red light was blinking exactly where he would have imagined the smoke to have been coming from.\par
Bertram got up and pulled open a file drawer. It was filled with small handheld electronic devices that looked like miniature notepads with small LCD screens. An extendable antenna protruded from each.\par
\'93These work in a similar fashion,\'94 Bertram said. He handed one to Kevin. \'93We call them locators. Of course, they are portable and can be taken into the field. It makes retrieval a snap compared to the struggles we had initially.\'94\par
Kevin played with the keyboard. With Bertram\'92s help, he soon had the island graphic with the red blinking light displayed. Bertram showed how to go from successive maps with smaller and smaller scales until the entire screen represented a square fifty feet by fifty feet.\par
\'93Once you are that close, you use this,\'94 Bertram said. He handed Kevin an instrument that looked like a flashlight with a keypad. \'93On this you type in the same information. What it does is function as a directional beacon. It pings louder the closer it comes to pointing at the animal you\'92re looking for. When there is a clear visual sighting, it emits a continuous sound. Then all you have to do is use the dart gun.\'94\par
\'93How does this tracking system operate?\'94 Kevin asked. Having been immersed in the biomolecular aspects of the project, he\'92d not paid any attention to the logistics. He\'92d toured the island five years previously at the commencement of the venture, but that had been it. He\'92d never inquired about the nuts and bolts of everyday operation.\par
\'93It\'92s a satellite system,\'94 Bertram said. \'93I don\'92t pretend to know the details. Of course each animal has a small microchip with a long-lasting nickel cadmium battery embedded just under the derma. The afferent signal from the microchip is minuscule, but it\'92s picked up by the grid, magnified, and transmitted by microwave.\'94\par
Kevin started to give the devices back to Bertram, but Bertram waved them away. \'93Keep them,\'94 he said. \'93We\'92ve got plenty of others.\'94\par
\'93But I don\'92t need them,\'94 Kevin protested.\par
\'93Come on, Kevin,\'94 Bertram chided playfully while thumping Kevin on the back. The blow was hard enough to knock Kevin forward. \'93Loosen up! You\'92re much too serious.\'94 Bertram sat at his desk, picked up his phone messages, and absently began to arrange them in order of importance.\par
Kevin glanced at the electronic devices in his hands and wondered what he\'92d do with them. They were obviously costly instruments.\par
\'93What was it about your project that you wanted to discuss with me?\'94 Bertram asked. He looked up from his phone messages. \'93People are always complaining I don\'92t allow them to get a word in edgewise. What\'92s on your mind?\'94\par
\'93I\'92m concerned,\'94 Kevin stammered.\par
\'93About what?\'94 Bertram asked. \'93Things couldn\'92t be going any better.\'94\par
\'93I\'92ve seen the smoke again,\'94 Kevin managed.\par
\'93What? You mean like that wisp of smoke you mentioned to me last week?\'94 Bertram asked.\par
\'93Exactly,\'94 Kevin said. \'93And from the same spot on the island.\'94\par
\'93Ah, it\'92s nothing,\'94 Bertram declared, with a wave of his hand. \'93We\'92ve been having electrical storms just about every other night. Lightning starts fires; everybody knows that.\'94\par
\'93As wet as everything is?\'94 Kevin said. \'93I thought lightning starts fires in savannas during the dry season, not in dank, equatorial rain forests.\'94\par
\'93Lightning can start a fire anyplace,\'94 Bertram said. \'93Think of the heat it generates. Remember, thunder is nothing but expansion of air from the heat. It\'92s unbelievable.\'94\par
\'93Well, maybe,\'94 Kevin said. He was unconvinced. \'93But even if it were to start a fire, would it last?\'94\par
\'93You\'92re like a dog with a bone,\'94 Bertram commented. \'93Have you mentioned this crazy idea to anybody else?\'94\par
\'93Only to Raymond Lyons,\'94 Kevin said. \'93He called me yesterday about another problem.\'94\par
\'93And what was his response?\'94 Bertram asked.\par
\'93He told me not to let my imagination run wild,\'94 Kevin said.\par
\'93I\'92d say that was good advice,\'94 Bertram said. \'93I second the motion.\'94\par
\'93I don\'92t know,\'94 Kevin said. \'93Maybe we should go out there and check.\'94\par
\'93No!\'94 Bertram snapped. For a fleeting moment his mouth formed a hard line and his blue eyes blazed. Then his face relaxed. \'93I don\'92t want to go to the island except for a retrieval. That was the original plan and by golly we\'92re sticking with it. As well as everything is going, I don\'92t want to take any chances. The animals are to remain isolated and undisturbed. The only person who goes there is the pygmy, Alphonse Kimba, and he goes only to pull supplementary food across to the island.\'94\par
\'93Maybe I could go by myself,\'94 Kevin suggested. \'93It wouldn\'92t take me long, and then I can stop worrying.\'94\par
\'93Absolutely not!\'94 Bertram said emphatically. \'93I\'92m in charge of this part of the project, and I forbid you or anyone else to go on the island.\'94\par
\'93I don\'92t see that it would make that much difference,\'94 Kevin said. \'93I wouldn\'92t bother the animals.\'94\par
\'93No!\'94 Bertram said. \'93There are to be no exceptions. We want these to be wild animals. That means minimal contact. Besides, with as small as this enclave is, visits will provoke talk, and we don\'92t want that. And on top of that it could be dangerous.\'94\par
\'93Dangerous?\'94 Kevin questioned. \'93I\'92d stay away from the hippos and the crocs. The bonobos certainly aren\'92t dangerous.\'94\par
\'93One of the pygmy bearers was killed on the last retrieval,\'94 Bertram said. \'93We\'92ve kept that very quiet for obvious reasons.\'94\par
\'93How was he killed?\'94 Kevin asked.\par
\'93By a rock,\'94 Bertram said. \'93One of the bonobos threw a rock.\'94\par
\'93Isn\'92t that unusual?\'94 Kevin asked.\par
Bertram shrugged. \'93Chimps are known to throw sticks on occasion when they are stressed or scared. No, I don\'92t think it\'92s unusual. It was probably just a reflex gesture. The rock was there so he threw it.\'94\par
\'93But it\'92s also aggressive,\'94 Kevin said. \'93That\'92s unusual for a bonobo, especially one of ours.\'94\par
\'93All apes will defend their group when attacked,\'94 Bertram said.\par
\'93But why should they have felt they were being attacked?\'94 Kevin asked.\par
\'93That was the fourth retrieval,\'94 Bertram said. He shrugged again. \'93Maybe they\'92re learning what to expect. But whatever the reason, we don\'92t want anyone going to the island. Spallek and I have discussed this, and he\'92s in full agreement.\'94\par
Bertram got up from the desk and draped an arm over Kevin\'92s shoulders. Kevin tried to ease himself away, but Bertram held on. \'93Come on, Kevin! Relax! This kind of wild flight of imagination of yours is exactly what I was talking about earlier. You\'92ve got to get out of your lab and do something to divert that overactive mind of yours. You\'92re going stir-crazy and you\'92re obsessing. I mean, this fire crap is ridiculous. The irony is that the project is going splendidly. How about reconsidering that offer for coming over for dinner? Trish and I would be delighted.\'94\par
\'93I\'92ll give it serious thought,\'94 Kevin said. He felt distinctly uncomfortable with Bertram\'92s arm around his neck.\par
\'93Good,\'94 Bertram said. He gave Kevin a final pat on his back. \'93Maybe the three of us could take in a movie as well. There\'92s a terrific double-feature scheduled for this week. I mean, you ought to take advantage of the fact that we get the latest movies. It\'92s a big effort on GenSys\'92s part to fly them in here on a weekly basis. What do you say?\'94\par
\'93I guess,\'94 Kevin said evasively.\par
\'93Good,\'94 Bertram said. \'93I\'92ll mention it to Trish, she\'92ll give you a call. Okay?\'94\par
\'93Okay,\'94 Kevin said. He smiled weakly.\par
\par
\pard\qj Five minutes later, Kevin climbed back into his vehicle more confused than before he\'92d come to see Bertram Edwards. He didn\'92t know what to think. Maybe his imagination was working overtime. It was possible, but short of visiting Isla Francesca there was no way of knowing for sure. And on top of that was this new worry that people were feeling resentful towards him.\par
\pard\fi283\qj Braking at the exit of the parking area, Kevin glanced up and down the road in front of the animal complex. He waited for a large truck to rumble by. As he was about to pull out, his eye caught the sight of a man standing motionlessly in the window of the Moroccan headquarters. Kevin couldn\'92t see him well because of the sunlight reflecting off the glass, but he could tell it was one of the mustached guards. He could also tell the man was watching him intently.\par
Kevin shivered without exactly knowing why.\par
The ride back to the hospital was uneventful and quick, but the seemingly impenetrable walls of dark green vegetation gave Kevin an uncomfortable claustrophobic feeling. Kevin\'92s response was to press down on the accelerator. He was relieved to reach the edge of town.\par
Kevin parked in his spot. He opened his door, but hesitated. It was close to noon, and he debated heading home for lunch or going up to his lab for an hour or so. The lab won out. Esmeralda never expected him before one.\par
Just with the short walk from the car to the hospital, Kevin could appreciate the intensity of the noontime sun. It was like an oppressive blanket that made all movement more difficult, even breathing. Until he\'92d come to Africa, he\'92d never experienced true tropical heat. Once inside, enveloped with cool, air-conditioned air, Kevin grasped the edge of his collar and pulled his shirt away from his back.\par
He started up the stairs, but he didn\'92t get far.\par
\'93Dr. Marshall!\'94 a voice called.\par
Kevin looked behind him. He wasn\'92t accustomed to being accosted in the stairwell.\par
\'93Shame on you, Dr. Marshall,\'94 a woman said, standing at the base of the stairs. Her voice had a lilting quality that suggested she was being less than serious. She was clad in surgical scrubs and a white coat. The sleeves of the coat were rolled up to her mid-forearms.\par
\'93Excuse me?\'94 Kevin said. The woman looked familiar, but he couldn\'92t place her.\par
\'93You haven\'92t been to see the patient,\'94 the woman said. \'93With other cases you came each day.\'94\par
\'93Well, that\'92s true,\'94 Kevin said self-consciously. He\'92d finally recognized the woman. It was the nurse, Candace Brickmann. She was part of the surgical team that flew in with the patient. This was her fourth trip to Cogo. Kevin had met her briefly on all three previous visits.\par
\'93You\'92ve hurt Mr. Winchester\'92s feelings,\'94 Candace said, wagging her finger at Kevin. She was a vivacious gamine in her late twenties. With fine, light-blond hair done up in a French twist. Kevin couldn\'92t remember a time he\'92d seen her that she wasn\'92t smiling.\par
\'93I didn\'92t think he\'92d notice,\'94 Kevin stammered.\par
Candace threw back her head and laughed. Then she covered her mouth with her hand to suppress further giggles when she saw Kevin\'92s confused expression.\par
\'93I\'92m only teasing,\'94 she said. \'93I\'92m not even sure Mr. Winchester remembers meeting you on that hectic day of arrival.\'94\par
\'93Well, I meant to come and see how he was doing,\'94 Kevin said. \'93I\'92ve just been too busy.\'94\par
\'93Too busy in this place in the middle of nowhere?\'94 Candace asked.\par
\'93Well, I guess it\'92s more that I\'92ve been preoccupied,\'94 Kevin admitted. \'93A lot has been happening.\'94\par
\'93Like what?\'94 Candace asked, suppressing a smile. She liked this shy, unassuming researcher.\par
Kevin made some fumbling gestures with his hands while his face flushed. \'93All sorts of things,\'94 he said finally.\par
\'93You academic types crack me up,\'94 Candace said. \'93But, teasing aside, I\'92m happy to report that Mr. Winchester is doing just fine, and I understand from the surgeon that\'92s largely thanks to you.\'94\par
\'93I wouldn\'92t go that far,\'94 Kevin said.\par
\'93Oh, modest, too!\'94 Candace commented. \'93Smart, cute, and humble. That\'92s a killing combination.\'94\par
Kevin stuttered but no words came out.\par
\'93Would it be out of bounds for me to invite you to join me for lunch?\'94 Candace said. \'93I thought I\'92d walk over and get a hamburger. I\'92m a little tired of the hospital cafeteria food, and it would be nice to get a little air now that the sun is out. What do you say?\'94\par
Kevin\'92s mind whirled. The invitation was unexpected, and under normal circumstances he would have found reason to decline for that reason alone. But with Bertram\'92s comments fresh in his mind, he wavered.\par
\'93Cat got your tongue?\'94 Candace asked. She lowered her head and flirtatiously peered at him beneath arched eyebrows.\par
Kevin gestured up toward his lab, then mumbled words to the effect that Esmeralda was expecting him.\par
\'93Can\'92t you give her a call?\'94 Candace asked. She had the intuitive feeling Kevin wanted to join her, so she persisted.\par
\'93I guess,\'94 Kevin said. \'93I suppose I could call from my lab.\'94\par
\'93Fine,\'94 Candace said. \'93Do you want me to wait here or come with you?\'94\par
Kevin had never met such a forward female, not that he had a lot of opportunity or experience. His last and only love other than a couple of high school crushes had been a fellow doctorate candidate, Jacqueline Morton. That relationship had taken months to develop out of long hours working together; she\'92d been as shy as Kevin.\par
Candace came up the five stairs to stand next to Kevin. She was about five-three in her Nikes. \'93If you can\'92t decide, and it\'92s all the same to you, why don\'92t I come up.\'94\par
\'93Okay,\'94 Kevin said.\par
Kevin\'92s nervousness quickly abated. Usually what bothered him in social circumstances with females was the stress of trying to think of things to talk about. With Candace, he didn\'92t have time to think. She maintained a running conversation. During the ascent of the two flights of stairs she managed to bring up the weather, the town, the hospital, and how the surgery had gone.\par
\'93This is my lab,\'94 Kevin said, after opening the door.\par
\'93Fantastic!\'94 Candace said with sincerity.\par
Kevin smiled. He could tell she was truly impressed.\par
\'93You go ahead and make your call,\'94 Candace said. \'93I\'92ll just look around if it\'92s okay.\'94\par
\'93If you\'92d like,\'94 Kevin said.\par
Although Kevin was concerned about giving Esmeralda so little warning he\'92d not be there for lunch, she surprised him with her equanimity. Her only response was to ask when Kevin wanted dinner.\par
\'93At the usual time,\'94 Kevin said. Then after a brief hesitation, he surprised himself by adding: \'93I might have company. Would that be a problem?\'94\par
\'93Not at all,\'94 Esmeralda said. \'93How many persons?\'94\par
\'93Just one,\'94 Kevin said. He hung up the phone and wiped his palms together. They were a little damp.\par
\'93Are we on for lunch?\'94 Candace called from across the room.\par
\'93Let\'92s go!\'94 Kevin said.\par
\'93This is some lab!\'94 she commented. \'93I never would have expected to find it here in the heart of tropical Africa. Tell me, what is it that you\'92re doing with all this fantastic equipment?\'94\par
\'93I\'92m trying to perfect the protocol,\'94 Kevin said.\par
\'93Can\'92t you be more specific?\'94 Candace asked.\par
\'93You really want to know?\'94 Kevin asked.\par
\'93Yes,\'94 Candace said. \'93I\'92m interested.\'94\par
\'93At this stage I\'92m dealing with minor histocompatibility antigens. You? know, proteins that define you as a unique, separate individual.\'94\par
\'93And what do you do with them?\'94\par
\'93Well, I locate their genes on the proper chromosome,\'94 Kevin said. \'93Then I search for the transponase that\'92s associated with the genes, if there\'92s any, so I can move the genes.\'94\par
Candace let out a little laugh. \'93You\'92ve lost me already,\'94 she admitted. \'93I haven\'92t the foggiest notion what a transponase is. In fact, I\'92m afraid a lot of this molecular biology is over my head.\'94\par
\'93It really isn\'92t,\'94 Kevin said. \'93The principles aren\'92t that complicated. The critical fact few people realize is that some genes can move around on their chromosome. This happens particularly in B lymphocytes to increase the diversity of antibodies. Other genes are even more mobile and can change places with their twins. You do remember that there are two copies of every gene.\'94\par
\'93Yup,\'94 Candace said. \'93Just like there are two copies of each chromosome. Our cells have twenty-three chromosome pairs.\'94\par
\'93Exactly,\'94 Kevin said. \'93When genes exchange places on their chromosome pairs it\'92s called homologous transposition. It\'92s a particularly important process in the generation of sex cells, both eggs and sperms. What it does is help increase genetic shuffling, and hence the ability of species to evolve.\'94\par
\'93So this homologous transposition plays a role in evolution,\'94 Candace said.\par
\'93Absolutely,\'94 Kevin agreed. \'93Anyway, the gene segments that move are called transposons, and the enzymes that catalyze their movement are called transponases.\'94\par
\'93Okay,\'94 Candace said. \'93I follow you so far.\'94\par
\'93Well, right now I\'92m interested in transposons that contain the genes for minor histocompatibility antigens,\'94 Kevin said.\par
\'93I see,\'94 Candace said, nodding her head. \'93I\'92m getting the picture. You\'92re goal is to move the gene for a minor histocompatibility antigen from one chromosome to another.\'94\par
\'93Exactly!\'94 Kevin said. \'93The trick, of course, is finding and isolating the transponase. That\'92s the difficult step. But once I\'92ve found the transponase, it\'92s relatively easy to locate its gene. And once I\'92ve located and isolated the gene, I can use standard recombinant DNA technology to produce it.\'94\par
\'93Meaning getting bacteria to make it for you,\'94 Candace said.\par
\'93Bacteria or mammalian tissue culture,\'94 Kevin said. \'93Whatever works best.\'94\par
\'93Phew!\'94 Candace commented. \'93This brain game is reminding me how hungry I am. Let\'92s get some hamburgers before my blood sugar bottoms out.\'94\par
Kevin smiled. He liked this woman. He was even starting to relax.\par
Descending the hospital stairs, Kevin felt a little giddy while listening and responding to Candace\'92s entertaining, nonstop questions and chatter. He couldn\'92t believe he was going to lunch with such an attractive, engaging female. It seemed to him that more things had happened in the last couple of days than during the previous five years he\'92d been in Cogo. He was so preoccupied, he didn\'92t give a thought to the Equatoguinean soldiers as he and Candace crossed the square.\par
Kevin had not been in the rec center since his initial orientation tour. He\'92d forgotten its quaintness. He\'92d also forgotten how blasphemous it was that the church had been recycled to provide worldly diversion. The altar was gone, but the pulpit was still in place off to the left. It was used for lectures and for calling out the numbers on bingo night. In place of the altar was the movie screen: an unintended sign of the times.\par
The commissary was in the basement and was reached by a stairway in the narthex. Kevin was surprised at how busy it was. A babble of voices echoed off the harsh, concrete ceiling. He and Candace had to stand in a long line before ordering. Then after they\'92d gotten their food, they had to search in the confusion for a place to sit. The tables were all long and had to be shared. The seats were benches attached like picnic tables.\par
\'93There are some seats,\'94 Candace called out over the chatter. She pointed toward the rear of the room with her tray. Kevin nodded.\par
Kevin glanced furtively at the faces in the crowd as he weaved his way after Candace. He felt self-conscious, given Bertram\'92s insight into popular opinion, yet no one paid him the slightest attention.\par
Kevin followed Candace as she squeezed between two tables. He held his tray high to avoid hitting anyone, then put it down at an empty spot. He had to struggle to get his legs over the seat and under the table. By the time he was situated, Candace had already introduced herself to the two people sitting on the aisle. Kevin nodded to them. He didn\'92t recognize either one.\par
\'93Lively place,\'94 Candace said. She reached for catsup. \'93Do you come here often?\'94\par
Before Kevin could respond, someone called out his name. He turned and recognized the lone familiar face. It was Melanie Becket, the reproductive technologist.\par
\'93Kevin Marshall!\'94 Melanie exclaimed again. \'93I\'92m shocked. What are you doing here?\'94\par
Melanie was about the same age as Candace; she\'92d celebrated her thirtieth birthday the previous month. Where Candace was light, she was dark, with medium-brown hair and coloration that seemed Mediterranean. Her dark brown eyes were nearly black.\par
Kevin struggled to introduce his lunchmate, and was horrified to realize that for the moment he couldn\'92t remember her name.\par
\'93I\'92m Candace Brickmann,\'94 Candace said without missing a beat. She reached out a hand. Melanie introduced herself and asked if she could join them.\par
\'93By all means,\'94 Candace said.\par
Candace and Kevin were sitting side by side. Melanie sat opposite.\par
\'93Are you responsible for our local genius\'92s presence at the ptomaine palace?\'94 Melanie asked Candace. Melanie was a sharp-witted, playfully irreverent woman who\'92d grown up in Manhattan.\par
\'93I guess,\'94 Candace said. \'93Is this unusual for him?\'94\par
\'93That\'92s the understatement of the year,\'94 Melanie said. \'93What\'92s your secret? I\'92ve asked him to come over here so many times to no avail that I finally gave up, and that was several years ago.\'94\par
\'93You never asked me specifically,\'94 Kevin said in his own defense.\par
\'93Oh, really?\'94 Melanie questioned. \'93What did I have to do\'97draw you a map? I used to ask if you wanted to grab a burger. Wasn\'92t that specific enough?\'94\par
\'93Well,\'94 Candace said, straightening up in her seat. \'93This must be my lucky day.\'94\par
Melanie and Candace fell into easy conversation, exchanging job descriptions. Kevin listened but concentrated on his hamburger.\par
\'93So we\'92re all three part of the same project,\'94 Melanie commented when she heard that Candace was the intensive-care nurse of the surgical team from Pittsburgh. \'93Three peas in a pod.\'94\par
\'93You\'92re being generous,\'94 Candace said. \'93I\'92m just one of the low men on the therapeutic totem pole. I wouldn\'92t put myself on the same level with you guys. You\'92re the ones that make it all possible. If you don\'92t mind my asking, how on earth do you do it?\'94\par
\'93She\'92s the hero,\'94 Kevin said, speaking up for the first time and nodding toward Melanie.\par
\'93Come on, Kevin!\'94 Melanie complained. \'93I didn\'92t develop the techniques I use the way you did. There are lots of people who could have done my job, but only you could have done yours. It was your breakthrough that was key.\'94\par
\'93No arguing you two,\'94 Candace said. \'93Just tell me how it\'92s done. I\'92ve been curious from day one, but everything has been so hush-hush. Kevin\'92s explained the science to me, but I still don\'92t understand the logistics.\'94\par
\'93Kevin gets a bone-marrow sample from a client,\'94 Melanie said. \'93From that, he isolates a cell preparing to divide so that the chromosomes are condensed, preferably a stem cell if I\'92m correct.\'94\par
\'93It\'92s pretty rare to find a stem cell,\'94 Kevin said.\par
\'93Well, then you tell her what you do,\'94 Melanie said to Kevin, with a dismissive wave of her hand. \'93I\'92ll get it all balled up.\'94\par
\'93I work with a transponase that I discovered almost seven years ago,\'94 Kevin said. \'93It catalyzes the homologous transposition or crossing over of the short arms of chromosome six.\'94\par
\'93What\'92s the short arm of chromosome six?\'94 Candace asked.\par
\'93Chromosomes have what\'92s called a centromere that divides them into two segments,\'94 Melanie explained. \'93Chromosome six has particularly unequal segments. The little ones are called the short arms.\'94\par
\'93Thank you,\'94 Candace said.\par
\'93So\~.\~.\~.\'94 Kevin said, trying to organize his thoughts. \'93What I do is add my secret transponase to a client\'92s cell that is preparing to divide. But I don\'92t let the crossing-over go to completion. I halt it with the two short arms detached from their respective chromosomes. Then I extract them.\'94\par
\'93Wow!\'94 Candace remarked. \'93You actually take these tiny, tiny strands out of the nucleus. How on earth can you do that!\'94\par
\'93That\'92s another story,\'94 Kevin said. \'93Actually I use a monoclonal antibody system that recognizes the backside of the transponase.\'94\par
\'93This is getting over my head,\'94 Candace said.\par
\'93Well, forget how he gets the short arms out,\'94 Melanie said. \'93Just accept it.\'94\par
\'93Okay,\'94 Candace said. \'93What do you do with these detached short arms?\'94\par
Kevin pointed toward Melanie. \'93I wait for her to work her magic.\'94\par
\'93It\'92s not magic,\'94 Melanie said. \'93I\'92m just a technician. I apply in vitro fertilization techniques to the bonobos, the same techniques that were developed to increase the fertility of captive mountain gorillas. Actually, Kevin and I have to coordinate our efforts because what he wants is a fertilized egg that has yet to divide. Timing is important.\'94\par
\'93I want it just ready to divide,\'94 Kevin said. \'93So it\'92s Melanie\'92s schedule that determines mine. I don\'92t start my part until she gives me the green light. When she delivers the zygote, I repeat exactly the same procedure that I\'92d just done with the client\'92s cell. After removing the bonobo short arms, I inject the client\'92s short arms into the zygote. Thanks to the transponase they hook right up exactly where they are supposed to be.\'94\par
\'93And that\'92s it?\'94 Candace said.\par
\'93Well, no,\'94 Kevin admitted. \'93Actually I introduce four transponases, not one. The short arm of chromosome six is the major segment that we\'92re transferring, but we also transfer a relatively small part of chromosomes nine, twelve, and fourteen. These carry the genes for the ABO blood groups and a few other minor histocompatibility antigens like CD-31 adhesion molecules. But that gets too complicated. Just think about chromosome six. It\'92s the most important part.\'94\par
\'93That\'92s because chromosome six contains the genes that make up the major histocompatibility complex,\'94 Candace said knowledgeably.\par
\'93Exactly,\'94 Kevin said. He was impressed and smitten. Not only was Candace socially adept, she was also smart and informed.\par
\'93Would this protocol work with other animals?\'94 Candace asked.\par
\'93What kind would you have in mind?\'94 Kevin asked.\par
\'93Pigs,\'94 Candace said. \'93I know other centers in the U.S. and England have been trying to reduce the destructive effect of complement in transplantation with pig organs by inserting a human gene.\'94\par
\'93Compared with what we are doing that\'92s like using leeches,\'94 Melanie said. \'93It\'92s so old-fashioned because it is treating the symptom, not eliminating its cause.\'94\par
\'93It\'92s true,\'94 Kevin said. \'93In our protocol there is no immunological reaction to worry about. Histocompatibility-wise we\'92re offering an immunological double, especially if I can incorporate a few more of the minor antigens.\'94\par
\'93I don\'92t know why you are agonizing over them,\'94 Melanie said. \'93In our first three transplants the clients haven\'92t had any rejection reaction at all. Zilch!\'94\par
\'93I want it perfect,\'94 Kevin said.\par
\'93I\'92m asking about pigs for several reasons,\'94 Candace said. \'93First, I think using bonobos may offend some people. Second, I understand there aren\'92t very many of them.\'94\par
\'93That\'92s true,\'94 Kevin said. \'93The total world population of bonobos is only about twenty thousand.\'94\par
\'93That\'92s my point,\'94 Candace said. \'93Whereas pigs are slaughtered for bacon by the hundred of thousands.\'94\par
\'93I don\'92t think my system would work with pigs,\'94 Kevin said. \'93I don\'92t know for sure, but I doubt it. The reason it works so well in bonobos, or chimps for that matter, is that their genomes and ours are so similar. In fact, they differ by only one and a half percent.\'94\par
\'93That\'92s all?\'94 Candace questioned. She was amazed.\par
\'93It\'92s kind of humbling, isn\'92t it,\'94 Kevin said.\par
\'93It\'92s more than humbling,\'94 Candace said.\par
\'93It\'92s indicative of how close bonobos, chimps, and humans are evolutionarily,\'94 Melanie said. \'93It\'92s thought we and our primate cousins have descended from a common ancestor who lived around seven million years ago.\'94\par
\'93That underscores the ethical question about using them,\'94 Candace said, \'93and why some people might be offended by their use. They look so human. I mean, doesn\'92t it bother you guys when one of them has to be sacrificed?\'94\par
\'93This liver transplant with Mr. Winchester is only the second that required a sacrifice,\'94 Melanie said. \'93The other two were kidneys, and the animals are fine.\'94\par
\'93Well, how did this case make you feel?\'94 Candace asked. \'93Most of us on the surgical team were more upset this time even though we thought we were prepared, especially since it was the second sacrifice.\'94\par
Kevin looked at Melanie. His mouth had gone dry. Candace was forcing him to face an issue he\'92d struggled to avoid. It was part of the reason the smoke coming from Isla Francesca upset him so much.\par
\'93Yeah, it bothers me,\'94 Melanie said. \'93But I guess I\'92m so thrilled with the involved science and what it can do for a patient, that I try not to think about it. Besides, we never expect to have to use many of them. They are more like insurance in case the clients might need them. We don\'92t accept people who already need transplant organs unless they can wait the three plus years it takes for their double to come of age. And we don\'92t have to interact with these creatures. They live off on an island by themselves. That\'92s by design so that no one here has the chance to form emotional bonds of any sort.\'94\par
Kevin swallowed with difficulty. In his mind\'92s eye he could see the smoke lazily snaking its way into the dull, leaden sky. He could also imagine the stressed bonobo picking up a rock and throwing it with deadly accuracy at the pygmy during the retrieval process.\par
\'93What\'92s the term when animals have human genes incorporated into them?\'94 Candace asked.\par
\'93Transgenic,\'94 Melanie said.\par
\'93Right,\'94 Candace said. \'93I just wish we could be using transgenic pigs instead of bonobos. This procedure bothers me. As much as I like the money and the GenSys stock, I\'92m not so sure I\'92m going to stick with the program.\'94\par
\'93They\'92re not going to like that,\'94 Melanie said. \'93Remember, you signed a contract. I understand they are sticklers about holding people to their original agreements.\'94\par
Candace shrugged. \'93I\'92ll give them back all the stock, options included. I can live without it. I\'92ll just have to see how I feel. I\'92d be much happier if we were using pigs. When we put that last bonobo under anesthesia, I could have sworn he was trying to communicate with us. We had to use a ton of sedative.\'94\par
\'93Oh, come on!\'94 Kevin snapped, suddenly furious. His face was flushed.\par
Melanie\'92s eyes opened wide. \'93What in heaven\'92s name has gotten into you?\'94\par
Kevin instantly regretted his outburst. \'93Sorry,\'94 he said. His heart was still pounding. He hated the fact that he was always so transparent, or felt he was.\par
Melanie rolled her eyes for Candace\'92s benefit, but Candace didn\'92t catch it. She was watching Kevin.\par
\'93I have a feeling you were as bummed out as I was,\'94 she said to him.\par
Kevin breathed out noisily then took a bite of hamburger to avoid saying anything he\'92d later regret.\par
\'93Why don\'92t you want to talk about it?\'94 Candace asked.\par
Kevin shook his head while he chewed. He guessed his face was still beet-red.\par
\'93Don\'92t worry about him,\'94 Melanie said. \'93He\'92ll recover.\'94\par
Candace faced Melanie. \'93The bonobos are just so human,\'94 she commented, going back to one of her original points, \'93so I guess we shouldn\'92t be shocked that their genomes differ by only one and a half percent. But something just occurred to me. If you guys are replacing the short arms of chromosome six as well as some other smaller segments of the bonobo genome with human DNA, what percentage do you think you\'92re dealing with?\'94\par
Melanie looked at Kevin while she made a mental calculation. She arched her eyebrows. \'93Hmmm,\'94 she said. \'93That\'92s a curious point. That would be over two percent.\'94\par
\'93Yeah, but the one and a half percent is not all on the short arm of chromosome six,\'94 Kevin snapped again.\par
\'93Hey, calm down, bucko,\'94 Melanie said. She put down her soft drink, reached across the table and put her hand on Kevin\'92s shoulder. \'93You\'92re out of control. All we\'92re doing is having a conversation. You know, it\'92s sort of normal for people to sit and talk. I know you find that weird since you\'92d rather interact with your centrifuge tubes, but what\'92s wrong?\'94\par
Kevin sighed. It went against his nature, but he decided to confide in these two bright, confident women. He admitted he was upset.\par
\'93As if we didn\'92t know!\'94 Melanie said with another roll of her eyes. \'93Can\'92t you be more specific? What\'92s bugging you?\'94\par
\'93Just what Candace is talking about,\'94 Kevin said.\par
\'93She\'92s said a lot of things,\'94 Melanie said.\par
\'93Yeah, and they\'92re all making me feel like I\'92ve made a monumental mistake.\'94\par
Melanie took her hand away and stared into the depths of Kevin\'92s topaz-colored eyes. \'93In what regard?\'94 she questioned.\par
\'93By adding so much human DNA,\'94 Kevin said. \'93The short arm of chromosome six has millions of base pairs and hundreds of genes that have nothing to do with the major histocompatibility complex. I should have isolated the complex instead of taking the easy route.\'94\par
\'93So the creatures have a few more human proteins,\'94 Melanie said. \'93Big deal!\'94\par
\'93That\'92s exactly how I felt at first,\'94 Kevin said. \'93At least until I put an inquiry out over the Internet, asking if anyone knew what other kinds of genes were on the short arm of chromosome six. Unfortunately, one of the responders informed me there was a large segment of developmental genes. Now I have no idea what I\'92ve created.\'94\par
\'93Of course you do,\'94 Candace said. \'93You\'92ve created a transgenic bonobo.\'94\par
\'93I know,\'94 Kevin said with his eyes blazing. He was breathing rapidly and perspiration had appeared on his forehead. \'93And by doing so I\'92m terrified I\'92ve overstepped the bounds.\'94\par
\par
\par
\pard\qj\fs32 CHAPTER 6\par
\pard\fi283\qj\fs24\par
\pard\qr MARCH 5, 1997\par
1:00 P.M.\par
COGO, EQUATORIAL GUINEA\par
\pard\fi283\qj\par
\pard\qj BERTRAM pulled his three-year-old Jeep Cherokee into the parking area behind the town hall and yanked on the brake. The car had been giving him trouble and had spent innumerable days being repaired in the motor pool. But the problem had persisted, and that fact made him particularly irritated when Kevin Marshall pretended not to know how lucky he was to get a new Toyota every two years. Bertram wasn\'92t scheduled for a new car for another year.\par
\pard\fi283\qj Bertram took the stairs that rose up behind the first-floor arcade to reach the veranda that ringed the building. From there he walked into the central office. By Siegfried Spallek\'92s choice, it had not been air-conditioned. A large ceiling fan lazily rotated with a particular wavering hum. The long, flat blades kept the sizable room\'92s warm, moist air on the move.\par
Bertram had called ahead, so Siegfried\'92s secretary, a broad-faced black man named Aurielo from the island of Bioko, was expecting him and waved him into the inner office. Aurielo had been trained in France as a schoolteacher, but had been unemployed until GenSys founded the Zone.\par
The inner office was larger than the outer and extended the entire width of the building. It had shuttered windows overlooking the parking lot in the back and the town square in the front. The front windows yielded the impressive view of the new hospital/laboratory complex. From where Bertram was standing, he could even see Kevin\'92s laboratory windows.\par
\'93Sit down,\'94 Siegfried said, without looking up. His voice had a harsh, guttural quality, with a slight Germanic accent. It was commandingly authoritarian. He was signing a stack of correspondence. \'93I\'92ll be finished in a moment.\'94\par
Bertram\'92s eyes wandered around the cluttered office. It was a place that never made him feel comfortable. As a veterinarian and moderate environmentalist, he did not appreciate the decor. Covering the walls and every available horizontal surface were glassy-eyed, stuffed heads of animals, many of which were endangered species. There were cats such as lions, leopards, and cheetahs. There was a bewildering variety of antelope, more than Bertram knew existed. Several enormous rhino heads peered blankly down from positions of prominence on the wall behind Spallek. On top of the bookcase were snakes, including a rearing cobra. On the floor was an enormous crocodile with its mouth partially ajar to reveal its fearsome teeth. The table next to Bertram\'92s chair was an elephant\'92s foot topped with a slab of mahogany. In the corners, stood crossed elephant tusks.\par
Even more bothersome to Bertram than the stuffed animals were the skulls. There were three of them on Siegfried\'92s desk. All three had their tops sawn off. One had an apparent bullet hole through the temple. They were used respectively for paper clips, ashtray, and to hold a large candle. Although the Zone\'92s electric power was the most reliable in the entire country, it did go off on rare occasions because of lightning strikes.\par
Most people, especially visitors from GenSys, assumed the skulls were from apes. Bertram knew differently. They were human skulls of people executed by the Equatoguinean soldiers. All three of the victims had been convicted of the capital offense of interfering with GenSys operations. In actuality, they had been caught poaching wild chimps on the Zone\'92s designated hundred-square-mile land. Siegfried considered the area his own private hunting reserve.\par
Years previously, when Bertram had gently questioned the wisdom of displaying the skulls, Siegfried had responded by saying that they kept the native workers on their toes. \'93It\'92s the kind of communication they comprehend,\'94 Siegfried had explained. \'93They understand such symbols.\'94\par
Bertram didn\'92t wonder that they got the message. Especially in a country which had suffered the atrocities of a diabolically cruel dictator. Bertram always remembered Kevin\'92s response to the skulls. Kevin had said that they reminded him of the deranged character Kurtz in Joseph Conrad\'92s \i Heart of Darkness\i0 .\par
\'93There,\'94 Siegfried said, pushing the signed papers aside. With his accent it sounded more like \'93zair.\'94 \'93What\'92s on your mind, Bertram? I hope you don\'92t have a problem with the new bonobos.\'94\par
\'93Not at all. The two breeding females are perfect,\'94 Bertram said. He eyed the Zone\'92s site boss. His most obvious physical trait was a grotesque scar that ran from beneath his left ear, down across his cheek, and under his nose. Over the years its gradual contraction had pulled up the corner of Siegfried\'92s mouth in a perpetual sneer.\par
Bertram did not technically report to Siegfried. As the chief vet of the world\'92s largest primate research and breeding facility, Bertram dealt directly with a GenSys senior vice president of operations back in Cambridge, Massachusetts, who had direct access to Taylor Cabot. But on a day-to-day basis, particularly in relation to the bonobo project, it was in Bertram\'92s best interest to maintain a cordial working relationship with the site boss. The problem was, Siegfried was short-tempered and difficult to deal with.\par
He\'92d started his African career as a white hunter, who, for a price, could get a client anything he wanted. Such a reputation required a move from East Africa to West Africa, where game laws were less rigidly enforced. Siegfried had built up a large organization, and things went well until some trackers failed him in a crucial situation, resulting in his being mauled by an enormous bull elephant and the client couple being killed.\par
The episode ended Siegfried\'92s career as a white hunter. It also left him with his facial scar and a paralyzed right arm. The extremity hung limp and useless from its shoulder connection.\par
Rage over the incident had made him a bitter and vindictive man. Still, GenSys had recognized his bush-based organizational skills, his knowledge of animal behavior, and his heavy-handed but effectual way of dealing with the indigenous African personality. They thought he was the perfect individual to run their multimillion-dollar African operation.\par
\'93There\'92s another wrinkle with the bonobo operation,\'94 Bertram said.\par
\'93Is this new concern in addition to the weird worry of yours that the apes have divided into two groups?\'94 Siegfried asked superciliously.\par
\'93Recognizing a change in social organization is a damn, legitimate concern!\'94 Bertram said, his color rising.\par
\'93So you said,\'94 Siegfried remarked. \'93But I\'92ve been thinking about it, and I can\'92t imagine it matters. What do we care if they hang out in one group or ten? All we want them to do is stay put and stay healthy.\'94\par
\'93I disagree,\'94 Bertram said. \'93Splitting up suggests they are not getting along. That would not be typical bonobo behavior, and it could spell trouble down the road.\'94\par
\'93I\'92ll let you, the professional, worry about it,\'94 Siegfried said. He leaned back in his chair, and it squeaked. \'93I personally don\'92t care what those apes do as long as nothing threatens this windfall money and stock options. The project is turning into a gold mine.\'94\par
\'93The new problem has to do with Kevin Marshall,\'94 Bertram said.\par
\'93Now what in God\'92s name could that skinny simpleton do to get you to worry?\'94 Siegfried asked. \'93With your paranoia, it\'92s a good thing you don\'92t have to do my job.\'94\par
\'93The nerd has worked himself up because he\'92s seen smoke coming from the island,\'94 Bertram said. \'93He\'92s come to me twice. Once last week and then again this morning.\'94\par
\'93What\'92s the big deal about smoke?\'94 Siegfried asked. \'93Why does he care? He sounds worse than you.\'94\par
\'93He thinks the bonobos might be using fire,\'94 Bertram said. \'93He hasn\'92t said so explicitly, but I\'92m sure that\'92s what is on his mind.\'94\par
\'93What do you mean \'91using fire\'92?\'94 Siegfried asked. He leaned forward. \'93You mean like making a campfire for warmth or cooking?\'94 Siegfried laughed without disturbing his omnipresent sneer. \'93I don\'92t know about you urban Americans. Out here in the bush you\'92re scared of your own shadow.\'94\par
\'93I know it\'92s preposetrous,\'94 Bertram said. \'93Of course no one else has seen it, or if they have, it\'92s probably from a lightning storm. The problem is, he wants to go out there.\'94\par
\'93No one goes near the island!\'94 Siegfried growled. \'93Only during a harvest, and it\'92s only the harvest team! That\'92s a directive from the home office. There are no exceptions save for Kimba, the pygmy, delivering the supplementary food.\'94\par
\'93I told him the same thing,\'94 Bertram said. \'93And I don\'92t think he\'92ll do anything on his own. Still, I thought I should tell you about it just the same.\'94\par
\'93It\'92s good that you did,\'94 Siegfried said irritably. \'93The little prick. He\'92s a goddamned thorn in my side.\'94\par
\'93There is one other thing,\'94 Bertram said. \'93He told Raymond Lyons about the smoke.\'94\par
Siegfried slapped the surface of his desk with his good hand loud enough to cause Bertram to jump. He stood up and stepped to the shuttered window overlooking the town square. He glared over at the hospital. He\'92d never liked the epicene bookish researcher from their first meeting. When he\'92d learned Kevin was to be coddled and accommodated in the second best house in the town, Siegfried had boiled over. He\'92d wanted to assign the house as a perk to one of his loyal underlings.\par
Siegfried balled his good hand into a fist and gritted his teeth. \'93What a meddling pain in the ass,\'94 he said.\par
\'93His research is almost done,\'94 Bertram said. \'93It would be a shame if he was to muck things up just when everything is going so well.\'94\par
\'93What did Lyons say?\'94 Siegfried asked.\par
\'93Nothing,\'94 Bertram said. \'93He accused Kevin of letting his imagination run wild.\'94\par
\'93I might have to have someone watch Kevin,\'94 Siegfried said. \'93I will not have anyone destroy this program. That\'92s all there is to it. It\'92s too lucrative.\'94\par
Bertram stood up. \'93That\'92s your department,\'94 he said. He started for the door, confident he\'92d planted the appropriate seed.\par
\par
\par
\pard\qj\fs32 CHAPTER 7\par
\pard\fi283\qj\fs24\par
\pard\qr MARCH 5, 1997\par
7:25 A.M.\par
NEW YORK CITY\par
\pard\fi283\qj\par
\pard\qj THE combination of cheap red wine and little sleep slowed Jack\'92s pace on his morning bicycle commute. His customary time of arrival in the ID room of the medical examiner\'92s office was seven-fifteen. But as he got off the elevator on the first floor of the morgue en route to the ID room, he noticed it was already seven twenty-five, and it bothered him. It wasn\'92t as if he were late, it was just that Jack liked to keep to a schedule. Discipline in relation to his work was one of the ways he\'92d learned to avoid depression.\par
\pard\fi283\qj His first order of business was to pour himself a cup of coffee from the communal pot. Even the aroma seemed to have a beneficial effect, which Jack attributed to Pavlovian conditioning. He took his first sip. It was a heavenly experience. Though he doubted the caffeine could work quite so quickly, he felt like his mild hangover headache was already on the mend.\par
He stepped over to Vinnie Amendola, the mortuary tech whose day shift overlapped the night shift. He was ensconced as usual at one of the office\'92s government-issued metal desks. His feet were parked on the corner, and his face hidden behind his morning newspaper.\par
Jack pulled the edge of the paper down to expose Vinnie\'92s Italianate features to the world. He was in his late twenties, in sorry physical shape, but handsome. His dark, thick hair was something Jack envied. Jack had been noticing over the previous year a decided thinning of his gray-streaked brown hair on the crown of his head.\par
\'93Hey, Einstein, what\'92s the paper say about the Franconi body incident?\'94 Jack asked. Jack and Vinnie worked together on a frequent basis, both appreciating the other\'92s flippancy, quick wit, and black humor.\par
\'93I don\'92t know,\'94 Vinnie said. He tried to pull his beloved paper from Jack\'92s grasp. He was embroiled in the Knicks stats from the previous night\'92s basketball game.\par
Jack\'92s forehead furrowed. Vinnie might not have been an academic genius, but about current news items, he was something of a resident authority. He read the newspapers cover to cover every day and had impressive recall.\par
\'93There\'92s nothing about it in the paper?\'94 Jack questioned. He was shocked. He\'92d imagined the media would have had a field day with the embarrassment of the body disappearing from the morgue. Bureaucratic mismanagement was a favorite journalistic theme.\par
\'93I didn\'92t notice it,\'94 Vinnie said. He yanked harder, freed the paper, and reburied his face.\par
Jack shook his head. He was truly surprised and wondered how Harold Bingham, the chief medical examiner, had managed such a media coverup. Just as Jack was about to turn away, he caught the headlines. It said: \scaps Mob Thumbs Nose at Authority\scaps0 . The subhead read: \'93Vaccarro crime family kills one of its own then steals the body out from under the noses of city officials.\'94\par
Jack snatched the entire paper from the surprised Vinnie\'92s grasp. Vinnie\'92s legs fell to the floor with a thump. \'93Hey, come on!\'94 he complained.\par
Jack folded the paper then held it so that Vinnie was forced to stare at the front page.\par
\'93I thought you said the story wasn\'92t in the paper,\'94 Jack said.\par
\'93I didn\'92t say it wasn\'92t in there,\'94 Vinnie said. \'93I said I didn\'92t see it.\'94\par
\'93It\'92s the headlines, for crissake!\'94 Jack said. He pointed at them with his coffee cup for emphasis.\par
Vinnie lunged out to grab his paper. Jack pulled it away from his grasp.\par
\'93Come on!\'94 Vinnie whined. \'93Get your own freakin\'92 paper.\'94\par
\'93You\'92ve got me curious,\'94 Jack said. \'93As methodical as you are, you\'92d have read this front-page story on your subway ride into town. What\'92s up, Vinnie?\'94\par
\'93Nothing!\'94 Vinnie said. \'93I just went directly to the sports page.\'94\par
Jack studied Vinnie\'92s face for a moment. Vinnie looked away to avoid eye contact.\par
\'93Are you sick?\'94 Jack asked facetiously.\par
\'93No!\'94 Vinnie snapped. \'93Just give me the paper.\'94\par
Jack slipped out the sports pages and handed them over. Then he went over to the scheduling desk and started the article. It began on the front page and concluded on the third. As Jack anticipated, it was written from a sarcastic, mocking point of view. It cast equal aspersion on the police department and the medical examiner\'92s office. It said the whole sordid affair was just another glowing example of the gross incompetence of both organizations.\par
Laurie breezed into the room and interrupted Jack. As she removed her coat, she told him that she hoped he felt better than she.\par
\'93Probably not,\'94 Jack admitted. \'93It was that cheap wine I brought over. I\'92m sorry.\'94\par
\'93It was also the five hours of sleep,\'94 Laurie said. \'93I had a terrible time hauling myself out of bed.\'94 She put her coat down on a chair. \'93Good morning, Vinnie,\'94 she called out.\par
Vinnie stayed silent behind his sports page.\par
\'93He\'92s pouting because I violated his paper,\'94 Jack said. Jack got up so Laurie could sit down at the scheduling desk. It was Laurie\'92s week to divvy up the cases for autopsy among the staff. \'93The headlines and cover story are about the Franconi incident.\'94\par
\'93I wouldn\'92t wonder,\'94 Laurie said. \'93It was all over the local news, and I heard it announced that Bingham will be on \i Good Morning America\i0  to attempt damage control.\'94\par
\'93He\'92s got his hands full,\'94 Jack said.\par
\'93Have you looked at today\'92s cases?\'94 Laurie asked, as she started glancing through the twenty or so folders.\par
\'93I just got here myself,\'94 Jack admitted. He continued reading the article.\par
\'93Oh, this is good!\'94 Jack commented after a moment\'92s silence. \'93They\'92re alleging that there is some kind of conspiracy between us and the police department. They suggest we might have deliberately disposed of the body for their benefit. Can you imagine! These media people are so paranoid that they see conspiracy in everything!\'94\par
\'93It\'92s the public who is paranoid,\'94 Laurie said. \'93The media likes to give them what they want. But that kind of wild theory is exactly why I\'92m going to find out how that body disappeared. The public has to know we are impartial.\'94\par
\'93I was hoping you\'92d have a change of heart and given up on that quest after a night\'92s sleep,\'94 Jack mumbled while continuing to read.\par
\'93Not a chance,\'94 Laurie said.\par
\'93This is crazy!\'94 Jack said, slapping the page of newsprint. \'93First they suggest we here at the ME office were responsible for the body disappearing, and now they say the mob undoubtedly buried the remains in the wilds of Westchester so they will never be found.\'94\par
\'93The last part is probably correct,\'94 Laurie said. \'93Unless the body turns up in the spring thaw. With the frost it\'92s hard to dig more than a foot below the surface.\'94\par
\'93Gads, what trash!\'94 Jack commented as he finished the article. \'93Here, you want to read it?\'94 He offered the front pages of the paper to Laurie.\par
Laurie waved them off. \'93Thanks, but I already read the version in the \i Times\i0 ,\'94 she said. \'93It was caustic enough. I don\'92t need the \i New York Post\i0\'92s point of view.\'94\par
Jack went back over to Vinnie and quipped that he was willing to return his paper to its virginal state. Vinnie took the pages without comment.\par
\'93You are awfully sensitive today,\'94 Jack said to the tech.\par
\'93Just leave me alone,\'94 Vinnie snapped.\par
\'93Whoa, watch out, Laurie!\'94 Jack said. \'93I think Vinnie has pre-mental tension. He\'92s probably planning on doing some thinking and it\'92s got his hormones all out of whack.\'94\par
\'93Uh-oh!\'94 Laurie called out. \'93Here\'92s that floater that Mike Passano mentioned last night. Who should I assign it to? Trouble is I don\'92t think I\'92m mad at anyone and to forestall guilt I\'92ll probably end up doing it myself.\'94\par
\'93Give it to me,\'94 Jack said.\par
\'93You don\'92t care?\'94 Laurie asked. She hated floaters, especially those which had been in the water for a long time. Such autopsies were unpleasant and often difficult jobs.\par
\'93Nah,\'94 Jack said. \'93Once you get past the smell, you got it licked.\'94\par
\'93Please!\'94 Laurie murmured. \'93That\'92s disgusting.\'94\par
\'93Seriously,\'94 Jack said. \'93They can be a challenge. I like them better than gunshot wounds.\'94\par
\'93This one is both,\'94 Laurie commented, as she put Jack down for the floater.\par
\'93How delightful!\'94 Jack commented. He walked back to the scheduling desk and looked over Laurie\'92s shoulder.\par
\'93There\'92s a presumptive, close range shotgun blast to the upper-right quadrant,\'94 Laurie said.\par
\'93It\'92s sounding better and better,\'94 Jack said. \'93What\'92s the victim\'92s name?\'94\par
\'93No name,\'94 Laurie said. \'93In fact, that will be part of your challenge. The head and the hands are missing.\'94\par
Laurie handed Jack the folder. He leaned on the edge of the desk and slid out the contents. There wasn\'92t much information. What there was came from the forensic investigator, Janice Jaeger.\par
Janice wrote that the body had been discovered in the Atlantic Ocean way out off Coney Island. It had been inadvertently found by a Coast Guard cutter which had been lying in wait under the cover of night for some suspected drug runners. The Coast Guard had acted on an anonymous tip, and, at the time of the discovery, had been essentially dead in the water with their lights out and radar on. The cutter had literally bumped up against the body. The presumption was that it was the remains of the drug runner/informer.\par
\'93Not a lot to go on,\'94 Jack said.\par
\'93All the more challenge,\'94 Laurie teased.\par
Jack slipped off the desk and headed for the communications room en route to the elevator. \'93Come on, grouchy!\'94 he called to Vinnie. He gave Vinnie\'92s paper a slap and his arm a tug as he passed. \'93Time\'92s a wasting.\'94 But at the door he literally bumped into Lou Soldano. The detective lieutenant had his mind on his goal: the coffee machine.\par
\'93Jeez,\'94 Jack commented. \'93You should try out for the New York Giants.\'94 Some of his coffee had sloshed out onto the floor.\par
\'93Sorry,\'94 Lou said. \'93I\'92m in sorry need of some Java.\'94\par
Both men went to the coffeepot. Jack used some paper towels to dab at the spill down the front of his corduroy jacket. Lou filled a Styrofoam cup to the brim with a shaky hand, then sipped enough to allow for plenty of cream and sugar.\par
Lou sighed. \'93It\'92s been a grueling couple of days.\'94\par
\'93Have you been partying all night again?\'94 Jack said.\par
Lou\'92s face was stubbled with a heavy growth of whiskers. He had on a wrinkled blue shirt with the top button undone and his tie loosened and askew. His Colombo-style trench coat looked like something a homeless person would wear.\par
\'93I wish,\'94 Lou grunted. \'93I\'92ve seen about three hours of sleep in the last two nights.\'94 He walked over, said hello to Laurie, and sat down heavily in a chair next to the scheduling desk.\par
\'93Any progress on the Franconi case?\'94 Laurie asked.\par
\'93Nothing that pleases the captain, the area commander, or the police commissioner,\'94 Lou said dejectedly. \'93What a mess. The worry is, some heads are going to roll. We in Homicide are starting to worry we might be set up as scapegoats unless we can come up with a break in the case.\'94\par
\'93It wasn\'92t your fault Franconi was murdered,\'94 Laurie said indignantly.\par
\'93Tell that to the commissioner,\'94 Lou commented. He took a loud sip from his coffee. \'93Mind if I smoke?\'94 He looked at Laurie and Jack. \'93Forget it,\'94 he said the moment he saw their expressions. \'93I don\'92t know why I asked. Must have been a moment of temporary insanity.\'94\par
\'93What have you learned?\'94 Laurie asked. Laurie knew that prior to being assigned to Homicide, Lou had been with the Organized Crime unit. With his experience, there was no one more qualified to investigate the case.\par
\'93It was definitely a Vaccarro hit,\'94 Lou said. \'93We learned that from our informers. But since Franconi was about to testify, we\'92d already assumed as much. The only real lead is that we have the murder weapon.\'94\par
\'93That should help,\'94 Laurie said.\par
\'93Not as much as you\'92d think,\'94 Lou said. \'93It\'92s not so unusual during a mob hit that the weapon is left behind. We found it on a rooftop across from the Positano Restaurant. It was a scoped 30-30 Remington with two rounds missing from its magazine. The two casings were on the roof.\'94\par
\'93Fingerprints?\'94 Laurie asked.\par
\'93Wiped clean,\'94 Lou said, \'93but the crime boys are still going over it.\'94\par
\'93Traceable?\'94 Jack asked.\par
\'93Yeah,\'94 Lou said with a sigh. \'93We did that. The rifle belonged to a hunting freak out in Menlo Park. But it was the expected dead end. The guy\'92s place had been robbed the day before. The only thing missing was the rifle.\'94\par
\'93So what\'92s next?\'94 Laurie asked.\par
\'93We\'92re still following up leads,\'94 Lou said. \'93Plus there are more informers that we\'92ve not been able to contact. But mostly we\'92re just keeping our fingers crossed for some sort of break. What about you guys? Any idea how the body walked out of here?\'94\par
\'93Not yet, but I\'92m looking into it personally,\'94 Laurie said.\par
\'93Hey, don\'92t encourage her,\'94 Jack said. \'93That\'92s for Bingham and Washington to do.\'94\par
\'93He\'92s got a point, Laurie,\'94 Lou said.\par
\'93Damn straight I got a point,\'94 Jack said. \'93Last time Laurie got involved with the mob she got carried out of here nailed in a coffin. At least that\'92s what you told me.\'94\par
\'93That was then and this is now,\'94 Laurie said. \'93I\'92m not involved in this case the way I was in that one. I think it is important to find out how the body disappeared for the sake of this office, and frankly I\'92m not convinced either Bingham or Washington will make the effort. From their point of view, it is better to let the episode just fade.\'94\par
\'93I can understand that,\'94 Lou said. \'93In fact, if the goddamned media would only let up, the commissioner might even want us to ease up. Who knows?\'94\par
\'93I\'92m going to find out how it happened,\'94 Laurie repeated with conviction.\par
\'93Well, knowing the who and the how could help my investigation,\'94 Lou said. \'93It was most likely the same people from the Vaccarro organization. It just stands to reason.\'94\par
Jack threw up his hands. \'93I\'92m getting out of here,\'94 he said. \'93I can tell neither of you will listen to reason.\'94 He again tugged on Vinnie\'92s shirt on the way out the door.\par
Jack poked his head into Janice\'92s office. \'93Anything I should know about this floater that\'92s not in the folder?\'94 he asked the investigator.\par
\'93The little there is, is all there,\'94 Janice said. \'93Except for the coordinates where the Coast Guard picked up the body. They told me that someone would have to call today to make sure it wasn\'92t classified or something. But I can\'92t imagine that information will matter. It\'92s not like anyone could go out there and find the head and the hands.\'94\par
\'93I agree,\'94 Jack said. \'93But have someone call anyway. Just for the record.\'94\par
\'93I\'92ll leave a note for Bart,\'94 Janice said. Bart Arnold was the chief forensic investigator.\par
\'93Thanks, Janice,\'94 Jack said. \'93Now get out of here and get some sleep.\'94 Janice was so committed to her job that she always worked overtime.\par
\'93Wait a second,\'94 Janice called out. \'93There was one other thing that I forgot to note in my report. When the body was picked up, it was naked. Not a stitch of clothing.\'94\par
Jack nodded. That was a curious piece of information. Undressing a corpse was added effort on the part of the murderer. Jack pondered for a moment, and when he did, he decided it was consistent with the murderer\'92s wish to hide the victim\'92s identity, a fact made obvious by the missing head and hands. Jack waved goodbye to Janice.\par
\'93Don\'92t tell me we\'92re doing a floater,\'94 Vinnie whined as he and Jack headed for the elevator.\par
\'93You sure do tune out when you read the sports page,\'94 Jack said. \'93Laurie and I discussed it for ten minutes.\'94\par
They boarded the elevator and started down to the autopsy room floor. Vinnie refused to make eye contact with Jack.\par
\'93You are in a weird mood,\'94 Jack said. \'93Don\'92t tell me you\'92re taking this Franconi disappearance personally.\'94\par
\'93Lay off,\'94 Vinnie said.\par
While Vinnie went off to don his moon suit, lay out all the paraphernalia necessary to do the autopsy, and then get the body into the morgue and onto the table, Jack went through the rest of the folder to make absolutely certain he\'92d not missed anything. Then he went and found the X rays that had been taken when the body had arrived.\par
Jack put on his own moon suit, unplugged the power source that had been charging over night, and hooked himself up. He hated the suit in general, but to work on a decomposing floater he hated it less. As he\'92d teased with Laurie earlier, the smell was the worst part.\par
At that time in the morning, Jack and Vinnie were the only ones in the autopsy room. To Vinnie\'92s chagrin, Jack invariably insisted on getting a jump on the day. Frequently, Jack was finishing his first case when his colleagues were just starting theirs.\par
The first order of business was to look at the X rays, and Jack snapped them up on the viewer. With his hands on his hips, Jack took a step back and gazed at the anterioposterior full-body shot. With no head and no hands, the image was decidedly abnormal, like the X ray of some primitive, nonhuman creature. The other abnormality was a bright, dense blob of shotgun pellets in the area of the right upper quadrant. Jack\'92s immediate impression was that there had been multiple shotgun blasts, not just one. There were too many beebee-like pellets.\par
The pellets were opaque to the X rays and obscured any detail they covered. On the light box they appeared white.\par
Jack was about to switch his attention to the lateral X ray when something about the opacity caught his attention. At two locations the periphery appeared strange, more lumpy than the usual beebee contour.\par
Jack looked at the lateral film and saw the same phenomena. His first impression was that the shotgun blasts might have carried some radio-opaque material into the wound. Perhaps it had been some part of the victim\'92s clothing.\par
\'93Whenever you\'92re ready, Maestro,\'94 Vinnie called out. He had everything prepared.\par
Jack turned from the X-ray view box and approached the autopsy table. The floater was ghastly pale in the raw fluorescent light. Whoever the victim had been, he\'92d been relatively obese and had not made any recent trips to the Caribbean.\par
\'93To use one of your favorite quotes,\'94 Vinnie said. \'93It doesn\'92t look like he\'92s going to make it to the prom.\'94\par
Jack smiled at Vinnie\'92s black humor. It was much more in keeping with his personality, suggesting that he had recovered from his early-morning pique.\par
The body was in sad shape although bobbing around in the water had washed it clean. The good news was that it had obviously been in the water for only a short time. The trauma went far beyond the multiple shotgun blasts to the upper abdomen. Not only were the head and the hands hacked off, but there was a series of wide, deep gashes in the torso and thighs that exposed swaths of greasy adipose tissue. The edges of all the wounds were ragged.\par
\'93Looks like the fish have been having a banquet,\'94 Jack said.\par
\'93Oh, gross!\'94 Vinnie commented.\par
The shotgun blasts had bared and damaged many of the internal abdominal organs. Some strands of intestines were visible as was one dangling kidney.\par
Jack picked up one of the arms and looked at the exposed bones. \'93A hacksaw would be my guess,\'94 he said.\par
\'93What are all these huge cuts?\'94 Vinnie asked. \'93Somebody try to slice him up like a holiday turkey?\'94\par
\'93Nah, I\'92d guess he\'92d been run over with a boat,\'94 Jack said. \'93They look like propeller injuries.\'94\par
Jack then began a careful examination of the exterior of the corpse. With so much obvious trauma, he knew it was easy to miss more subtle findings. He worked slowly, frequently stopping to photograph lesions. His meticulousness paid off. At the ragged base of the neck just anterior to the collarbone he found a small circular lesion. He found another similar one on the left side below the rib cage.\par
\'93What are they?\'94 Vinnie asked.\par
\'93I don\'92t know,\'94 Jack said. \'93Puncture wounds of some sort.\'94\par
\'93How many times do you suppose they shot him in the abdomen?\'94 Vinnie asked.\par
\'93Hard to say,\'94 Jack said.\par
\'93Boy, they weren\'92t taking any chances,\'94 Vinnie said. \'93They sure as hell wanted him dead.\'94\par
A half hour later, when Jack was about to commence the internal part of the autopsy, the door opened and Laurie walked in. She was gowned and held a mask to her face, but she didn\'92t have on her moon suit. Since she was a stickler for rules and since moon suits were now required in the \'93pit,\'94 Jack was immediately suspicious.\par
\'93At least your case wasn\'92t in the water for long,\'94 Laurie said, looking down at the corpse. \'93It\'92s not decomposed at all.\'94\par
\'93Just a refreshing dip,\'94 Jack quipped.\par
\'93What a shotgun wound!\'94 Laurie marveled, gazing at the fearsome wound. Then looking at the multiple gashes, she added, \'93These look like they were done by a propeller.\'94\par
Jack straightened up. \'93Laurie, what\'92s on your mind? You didn\'92t come down here just to help us, did you?\'94\par
\'93No,\'94 Laurie admitted. Her voice wavered behind her mask. \'93I guess I wanted a little moral support.\'94\par
\'93About what?\'94 Jack questioned.\par
\'93Calvin just reamed me out,\'94 Laurie said. \'93Apparently the night tech, Mike Passano, complained that I had been in last night accusing him of being involved in the theft of Franconi\'92s body. Can you imagine? Anyway, Calvin was really angry, and you know how I hate confrontation. I ended up crying, which made me furious at myself.\'94\par
Jack blew out through pursed lips. He tried to think of something to say other than \'93I told you so,\'94 but nothing came to mind.\par
\'93I\'92m sorry,\'94 Jack said limply.\par
\'93Thanks,\'94 Laurie said.\par
\'93So you shed a few tears,\'94 Jack said. \'93Don\'92t be so hard on yourself.\'94\par
\'93But I hate it,\'94 Laurie complained. \'93It\'92s so unprofessional.\'94\par
\'93Ah, I wouldn\'92t worry about it,\'94 Jack said. \'93Sometimes I wish I could shed tears. Maybe if we could do some kind of partial trade, we\'92d both be better off.\'94\par
\'93Anytime!\'94 Laurie said with conviction. This was the closest Jack had come to an admission of what Laurie had long suspected: his bottled-up grief was the major stumbling block for his own happiness.\par
\'93So, at least now you\'92ll drop your minicrusade,\'94 Jack said.\par
\'93Heavens, no!\'94 Laurie said. \'93If anything, it makes me more committed because it suggests just what I feared. Calvin and Bingham are going to try to sweep the episode under the carpet. It\'92s not right.\'94\par
\'93Oh, Laurie!\'94 Jack moaned. \'93Please! This little run-in with Calvin will only be the beginning. You\'92re going to bring yourself nothing but grief.\'94\par
\'93It\'92s the principle,\'94 Laurie said. \'93So don\'92t lecture me. I came to you for support.\'94\par
Jack sighed, fogging up his plastic face mask for a moment. \'93Okay,\'94 he said. \'93What do you want me to do?\'94\par
\'93Nothing in particular,\'94 Laurie said. \'93Just be there for me.\'94\par
\par
\pard\qj Fifteen minutes later, Laurie left the autopsy room. Jack had showed her all the external findings on his case, including the two puncture wounds. She\'92d listened with half an ear, obviously preoccupied with the Franconi business. Jack had had to restrain himself to keep from telling her again how he felt.\par
\pard\fi283\qj\'93Enough of this external stuff,\'94 Jack said to Vinnie. \'93Let\'92s move on to the internal part of the autopsy.\'94\par
\'93It\'92s about time,\'94 Vinnie complained. It was now after eight and bodies were coming in along with their assigned techs and medical examiners. Despite the early start, he and Jack were not significantly ahead of the others.\par
Jack ignored the friendly banter evoked by his hapless corpse. With all the obvious trauma, Jack had to vary the traditional autopsy technique and that took concentration. In contrast to Vinnie, Jack was oblivious to the passage of time. But again his meticulousness paid off. Although the liver had essentially been obliterated by the shotgun blasts, Jack discovered something extraordinary that might have been missed by someone doing a more haphazard, cursory job. He found the tiny remains of surgical sutures in the vena cava and in the ragged end of the hepatic artery. Sutures in such an area were uncommon. The hepatic artery brought blood to the liver, whereas the vena cava was the largest vein in the abdomen. Jack didn\'92t find any sutures in the portal vein, because that vessel was almost entirely obliterated.\par
\'93Chet, get over here,\'94 Jack called. Chet McGovern was Jack\'92s office mate. He was busy at a neighboring table.\par
Chet put down his scalpel and stepped over to Jack\'92s table. Vinnie moved to the head to give him space.\par
\'93What\'92cha got?\'94 Chet asked. \'93Something interesting?\'94 He peered into the hole where Jack was working.\par
\'93I sure do,\'94 Jack said. \'93I got a bunch of shotgun pellets, but I also have some vascular sutures.\'94\par
\'93Where?\'94 Chet asked. He couldn\'92t make out any anatomical landmarks.\par
\'93Here,\'94 Jack said. He pointed with the handle of a scalpel.\par
\'93Okay, I see them,\'94 Chet said with admiration. \'93Nice pickup. There\'92s not a lot of endothelialization. I\'92d say they weren\'92t that old.\'94\par
\'93That\'92s my thought,\'94 Jack said. \'93Probably within a month or two. Six months at the extreme.\'94\par
\'93What do you think it means?\'94\par
\'93I think the chances of me making an identification just went up a thousand percent,\'94 Jack said. He straightened up and stretched.\par
\'93So the victim had abdominal surgery,\'94 Chet said. \'93Lots of people have had abdominal surgery.\'94\par
\'93Not the kind of surgery this guy apparently had,\'94 Jack said. \'93With sutures in the vena cava and the hepatic artery, I\'92m betting he\'92s in a pretty distinguished group. My guess is that he\'92d had a liver transplant not too long ago.\'94\par
\par
\par
\pard\qj\fs32 CHAPTER 8\par
\pard\fi283\qj\fs24\par
\pard\qr MARCH 5, 1997\par
10:00 A.M.\par
NEW YORK CITY\par
\pard\fi283\qj\par
\pard\qj RAYMOND Lyons pulled up his cuff-linked sleeve and glanced at his wafer-thin Piaget watch. It was exactly ten o\'92clock. He was content. He liked to be punctual especially for business meetings, but he did not like to be early. As far as he was concerned being early reeked of desperation, and Raymond had a penchant for bargaining from a position of strength.\par
\pard\fi283\qj For the previous few minutes he\'92d been standing on the corner of Park Avenue and Seventy-eighth Street, waiting for the hour to arrive. Now that it had, he straightened his tie, adjusted his fedora, and started walking toward the entrance of 972 Park Avenue.\par
\'93I\'92m looking for Dr. Anderson\'92s office,\'94 Raymond announced to the liveried doorman who\'92d opened the heavy wrought-iron and glass door.\par
\'93The doctor\'92s office has its own entrance,\'94 the doorman replied. He reopened the door behind Raymond, stepped out onto the sidewalk and pointed south.\par
Raymond touched the tip of his hat in appreciation before moving down to this private entrance. A sign of engraved brass read: \scaps Please ring and then enter\scaps0 . Raymond did as he was told.\par
As the door closed behind him, Raymond was immediately pleased. The office looked and even smelled like money. It was sumptuously appointed with antiques and thick oriental carpets. The walls were covered with nineteenth-century art.\par
Raymond advanced to an elegant, boulle-work French desk. A well-dressed, matronly receptionist glanced up at him over her reading glasses. A nameplate sat on the desk facing Raymond. It said: \scaps Mrs. Arthur P. Auchincloss\scaps0 .\par
Raymond gave his name, being sure to emphasize the fact that he was a physician. He was well aware that some doctors\'92 receptionists could be uncomfortably imperious if they didn\'92t know a visitor was a member of the trade.\par
\'93The doctor is expecting you,\'94 Mrs. Auchincloss said. Then she politely asked Raymond to wait in the waiting room.\par
\'93It\'92s a beautiful office,\'94 Raymond said to make conversation.\par
\'93Indeed,\'94 Mrs. Auchincloss said.\par
\'93Is it a large office?\'94 Raymond asked.\par
\'93Yes, of course,\'94 Mrs. Auchincloss said. \'93Dr. Anderson is a very busy man. We have four full examining rooms and an X-ray room.\'94\par
Raymond smiled. It wasn\'92t difficult for him to guess the astronomical overhead that Dr. Anderson had been duped into assuming by so-called productivity experts during the heyday of \'93fee-for-service\'94 medicine. From Raymond\'92s point of view, Dr. Anderson was the perfect quarry as a potential partner. Although the doctor undoubtedly still had a small backlog of wealthy patients willing to pay cash to retain their old, comfortable relationship, Dr. Anderson had to have been being squeezed by managed care.\par
\'93I suppose that means a large staff,\'94 Raymond said.\par
\'93We\'92re down to one nurse,\'94 Mrs. Auchincloss said. \'93It\'92s hard to find appropriate help these days.\'94\par
Yeah, sure, Raymond mused. One nurse for four examining rooms unquestionably meant the doctor was struggling. But Raymond didn\'92t vocalize his thoughts. Instead he let his eyes roam around the carefully wallpapered walls and said: \'93I\'92ve always admired these old-school, Park Avenue offices. They are so civilized and serene. They can\'92t help but impart a feeling of trust.\'94\par
\'93I\'92m sure our patients feel the same way,\'94 Mrs. Auchincloss said.\par
An interior door opened and a bejeweled, Gucci-draped, elderly woman stepped into the reception area. She was painfully thin and had suffered so many face-lifts that her mouth was drawn into a taut, unremitting smirk. Behind her was Dr. Waller Anderson.\par
Raymond\'92s and Waller\'92s eyes crossed for a fleeting moment as the doctor guided his patient to the receptionist and gave instructions of when he should see her next.\par
Raymond assessed the doctor. He was tall and had a refined look that Raymond sensed he possessed as well. But Waller wasn\'92t tanned. In fact, his complexion had a grayish cast, and he looked strained with sad eyes and hollow cheeks. As far as Raymond was concerned, hard times were written all over his face.\par
After warm goodbyes to his patient, Waller motioned Raymond to follow him. He led down a long corridor that gave access to the examining rooms. At the end he preceded Raymond into his private office, then closed the door after them.\par
Waller introduced himself cordially but with obvious reserve. He took Raymond\'92s hat and coat, which he carefully hung in a small closet.\par
\'93Coffee?\'94 Waller asked.\par
\'93By all means,\'94 Raymond said.\par
A few minutes later, both with coffee, and with Waller behind his desk and Raymond sitting in a chair in front, Raymond began his pitch.\par
\'93These are tough times to be practicing medicine,\'94 Raymond said.\par
Waller made a sound that was akin to a laugh, but it was bereft of humor. Obviously he wasn\'92t amused.\par
\'93We can offer you an opportunity to significantly augment your income as well as provide a state-of-the-art service to select patients,\'94 Raymond said. For the most part Raymond\'92s presentation was a practiced speech that he\'92d perfected over the years.\par
\'93Is there anything illegal about this?\'94 Waller interjected. His tone was serious, almost irritable. \'93If there is, I\'92m not interested.\'94\par
\'93Nothing illegal,\'94 Raymond assured him. \'93Just extremely confidential. From our phone call, you said you would be willing to keep this conversation just among you, me, and Dr. Daniel Levitz.\'94\par
\'93As long as my silence is not felonious in and of itself,\'94 Waller said. \'93I will not be duped into being an accessory.\'94\par
\'93No need to worry,\'94 Raymond said. He smiled. \'93But if you do decide to join our group, you will be asked to sign an affidavit concerning confidentiality. Only then will you be told the specific details.\'94\par
\'93I don\'92t have any trouble with signing an affidavit,\'94 Waller said. \'93As long as I\'92m not breaking any law.\'94\par
\'93Well, then,\'94 Raymond said. He put his coffee cup on the edge of Waller\'92s desk to free up his hands. He fervently believed that hand gestures were important for impact. He started by telling about his chance meeting seven years previously with Kevin Marshall who\'92d given a poorly attended presentation at a national meeting that dealt with homologous transposition of chromosome parts between cells.\par
\'93Homologous transposition?\'94 Waller questioned. \'93What the devil is that?\'94 Having been through medical school prior to the revolution in molecular biology, he was unfamiliar with the terms.\par
Raymond patiently explained and used for his example the short arms of chromosome 6.\par
\'93So this Kevin Marshall developed a way to take a piece of chromosome from one cell and exchange it for the same piece in the same location of another cell,\'94 Waller said.\par
\'93Exactly,\'94 Raymond said. \'93And for me it was like an epiphany. I immediately saw the clinical application. Suddenly it was potentially possible to create an immunological double of an individual. As I\'92m sure you are aware, the short arm of chromosome six contains the major histocompatibility complex.\'94\par
\'93Like an identical twin,\'94 Waller said with growing interest.\par
\'93Even better than an identical twin,\'94 Raymond said. \'93The immunological double is created in an appropriately sized animal species that can be sacrificed on demand. Few people would be able to have an identical twin sacrificed.\'94\par
\'93Why wasn\'92t this published?\'94 Waller asked.\par
\'93Dr. Marshall fully intended to publish,\'94 Raymond said. \'93But there were some minor details he wanted to work out before he did so. It was his department head that forced him to present at the meeting. Lucky for us!\par
\'93After hearing the talk, I approached him and convinced him to go private. It wasn\'92t easy, but what tipped the scales in our favor was that I promised him the lab of his dreams with no interference from academia. I assured him that he would be given any and every piece of equipment he wanted.\'94\par
\'93You had such a lab?\'94 Waller asked.\par
\'93Not at the time,\'94 Raymond admitted. \'93Once I had agreement from him, I approached an international biotechnology giant, which will go nameless until you agree to join our group. With some difficulty I sold them on the idea of creatively marketing this phenomenon.\'94\par
\'93And how is that done?\'94 Waller asked.\par
Raymond moved forward in his chair and locked eyes with Waller. \'93For a price we create an immunological double for a client,\'94 he said. \'93As you can well imagine, it is a significant price but not unreasonable for the peace of mind it affords. But how we really make money is that the client must pay a yearly tuition to maintain his double.\'94\par
\'93Sort of like an initiation fee and then dues,\'94 Waller said.\par
\'93That\'92s another way to look at it,\'94 Raymond agreed.\par
\'93How do I benefit?\'94 Waller asked.\par
\'93Myriad ways,\'94 Raymond said. \'93I\'92ve constructed the business like a merchandizing pyramid. For every client you recruit, you get a percentage, not only of the initial price but each year from the tuition. On top of that, we will encourage you to recruit other physicians like yourself with collapsing patient bases but who still have a number of wealthy, health-conscious, cash-paying patients. With every successful physician recruitment, you get percentages from each of his recruitment efforts. For instance, if you choose to join, Dr. Levitz, who recommended you, will receive percentages from all your successes. You don\'92t have to be an accountant to understand that with a little effort you could be earning a substantial income. And as an added incentive, we can offer the payments offshore so they will accrue tax-free.\'94\par
\'93Why all the secrecy?\'94 Waller asked.\par
\'93For obvious reasons as far as the offshore accounts are concerned,\'94 Raymond said. \'93As for the whole program, there have been ethical issues that have been overlooked. Consequently, the biotechnology company that is making this all possible is paranoid about bad publicity. Frankly, the use of animals for transplantation offends some people, and we certainly do not want to be forced to deal with animal-rights zealots. Besides, this is an expensive operation and can be made available to only a few highly select people. That violates the concept of equality.\'94\par
\'93May I ask how many clients have taken advantage of this plan?\'94\par
\'93Laymen or physicians?\'94 Raymond asked.\par
\'93Laymen,\'94 Waller said.\par
\'93Around one hundred,\'94 Raymond said.\par
\'93Has anybody had to utilize the resource?\'94\par
\'93As a matter of fact, four have,\'94 Raymond said. \'93Two kidneys and two livers have been transplanted. All are doing superbly without medication and without any signs of rejection. And, I might add, there is a substantial additional charge for the harvest and transplantation, and the involved physicians get the same percentages of these fees.\'94\par
\'93How many physicians are involved?\'94 Waller asked.\par
\'93Fewer than fifty,\'94 Raymond said. \'93We started slowly on recruitment, but it is now speeding up.\'94\par
\'93How long has this program been going on?\'94 Waller asked.\par
\'93About six years,\'94 Raymond said. \'93It\'92s been a significant outlay of capital and a lot of effort, but it is now beginning to pay off handsomely. I should remind you that you will be getting in at a relatively early date, so the pyramid structure will benefit you greatly.\'94\par
\'93It sounds interesting,\'94 Waller said. \'93God knows I could use some additional income with my falling patient base. I\'92ve got to do something before I lose this office.\'94\par
\'93It would be a pity,\'94 Raymond agreed.\par
\'93Can I think about it for a day or so?\'94 Waller asked.\par
Raymond stood up. Experience told him he\'92d made another score. \'93By all means,\'94 he said graciously. \'93I\'92d also invite you to call Dr. Levitz. He\'92d recommended you highly, and he\'92s extraordinarily satisfied with the arrangements.\'94\par
Five minutes later Raymond exited onto the sidewalk and turned south down Park Avenue. His walk had an extra bounce to it. With the blue sky, the clear air, and the hint of spring, he felt on top of the world, especially with the pleasurable rush of adrenaline that a successful recruitment always gave him. Even the unpleasantness of the previous couple of days seemed insignificant. The future was bright and full of promise.\par
But then near disaster came out of nowhere. Distracted by his victory, Raymond almost stepped from the curb into the path of a speeding city bus. Wind from the hurling vehicle blew off his hat while filthy gutter water sprayed the front of his cashmere coat.\par
Raymond staggered back, dazed from his narrow escape from what might have been a horrible death. New York was a city of sudden extremes.\par
\'93You okay, buddy?\'94 a passerby asked. He handed Raymond his dented fedora.\par
\'93I\'92m fine, thank you,\'94 Raymond said. He looked down at the front of his coat and felt ill. The episode seemed metaphorical and brought back the anxiety he\'92d experienced over the unfortunate Franconi business. The muck reminded him of having to deal with Vinnie Dominick.\par
Feeling chastened, Raymond crossed the street with much more care. Life was full of dangers. As he walked toward Sixty-fourth Street, he began to worry about the other two transplant cases. He\'92d never considered the problem an autopsy posed to his program until the Franconi dilemma.\par
All at once, Raymond decided he\'92d better check the status of the other patients. There was no doubt in his mind that Taylor Cabot\'92s threat had been real. If one of the patients happened to be autopsied sometime in the future for whatever reason, and the media got hold of the results, it could spell disaster. GenSys would probably drop the whole operation.\par
Raymond quickened his pace. One patient lived in New Jersey, the other in Dallas. He thought he\'92d better get on the phone and talk with the recruiting doctors.\par
\par
\par
\pard\qj\fs32 CHAPTER 9\par
\pard\fi283\qj\fs24\par
\pard\qr MARCH 5, 1997\par
5:45 P.M.\par
COGO, EQUATORIAL GUINEA\par
\pard\fi283\qj\par
\pard\qj\'93HELLO!\'94 Candace\'92s voice called out. \'93Anybody home?\'94\par
\pard\fi283\qj Kevin\'92s hand flinched at the unexpected noise. The lab techs had long since left for the day, and the laboratory had been silent save for the low hum of the refrigeration units. Kevin had stayed to run another southern blot analysis to separate DNA fragments, but at the sound of Candace\'92s voice, he\'92d missed one of the wells with the micropipette. The fluid had run out over the surface of the gel. The test was ruined; he\'92d have to start again.\par
\'93Over here!\'94 Kevin yelled. He put down the pipette and stood up. Through the reagent bottles atop the lab bench, he could see Candace across the room, standing in the doorway.\par
\'93Am I coming at a bad time?\'94 Candace asked as she approached.\par
\'93No, I was just finishing up,\'94 Kevin said. He hoped he wasn\'92t being too transparent.\par
Although he was frustrated about the wasted time he\'92d spent on the procedure, Kevin was pleased to see Candace. During lunch that day, he\'92d worked up the courage to invite Candace and Melanie to his house for tea. Both had accepted with alacrity. Melanie had admitted that she\'92d always been curious to see what the house looked like on the inside.\par
The afternoon had been a big success. Undoubtedly, the key ingredient for the afternoon\'92s success was the personalities of the two ladies. There was never a pause in the conversation. Another contributing factor had been the wine that they\'92d all decided upon instead of tea. As a member of the Zone\'92s elite, Kevin was given a regular allotment of French wine which he rarely drank. Consequently, he had an impressive cellar.\par
The major topic of conversation had been the U.S., a favorite pastime for temporary American expatriates. Each of the three had extolled and argued the virtues of their hometown. Melanie loved New York and contended it was in a class all its own; Candace said that Pittsburgh\'92s quality of life was rated one of the highest; and Kevin praised the intellectual stimulation of Boston. What they had purposefully avoided discussing was Kevin\'92s emotional outburst at the commissary during lunch.\par
At the time, both Candace and Melanie questioned what he\'92d meant by being terrified of overstepping the bounds. But they didn\'92t persist when it became clear that Kevin was overly upset and reluctant to explain. Intuitively, the women had decided it best to change the subject, at least for the time.\par
\'93I\'92ve come to see if I can drag you over to meet Mr. Horace Winchester,\'94 Candace said. \'93I told him about you, and he\'92d like to thank you in person.\'94\par
\'93I don\'92t know if that is a good idea,\'94 Kevin said. He could feel himself tense.\par
\'93On the contrary,\'94 Candace said. \'93After what you said at lunch, I think you should see the good side of what you have been able to accomplish. I\'92m sorry that what I said made you feel so terrible.\'94\par
Candace\'92s remark was the first reference to Kevin\'92s lunch outburst since its occurrence. Kevin\'92s pulse quickened.\par
\'93It wasn\'92t your fault,\'94 he said. \'93I\'92d been upset before your comments.\'94\par
\'93Then come meet Horace,\'94 Candace said. \'93His recovery is fantastic. He\'92s doing so well, in fact, that an intensive-care nurse like me is just about unnecessary.\'94\par
\'93I wouldn\'92t know what to say,\'94 Kevin mumbled.\par
\'93Oh, it doesn\'92t matter what you say,\'94 Candace said. \'93The man is so thankful. Just a few days ago, he was so sick he thought he was going to die. Now he feels like he\'92s been given a new lease on life. Come on! It can\'92t help but make you feel good.\'94\par
Kevin struggled to think up a reason not to go and then was saved by another voice. It was Melanie.\par
\'93Ah, my two favorite drinking buddies,\'94 Melanie said coming into the room. She\'92d caught sight of Candace and Kevin through the open door. She\'92d been on her way to her own lab down the hall. She was dressed in blue coveralls which had \scaps animal center\scaps0  embroidered on the breast pocket.\par
\'93Are either of you guys hungover?\'94 Melanie asked. \'93I\'92ve still got a little buzz. God, we went through two bottles of wine. Can you believe it?\'94\par
Neither Candace or Kevin responded.\par
Melanie looked back and forth between their faces. She sensed something was wrong.\par
\'93What is this\'97a wake?\'94 she asked.\par
Candace smiled. She loved Melanie\'92s outspoken irreverence. \'93Hardly,\'94 Candace said. \'93Kevin and I are at a standoff. I was just trying to talk him into going over to the hospital to meet Mr. Winchester. He\'92s already out of bed and feeling chipper. I told him about you guys, and he\'92d like to meet both of you.\'94\par
\'93I hear he owns a string of resort hotels,\'94 Melanie said with a wink. \'93Hey, maybe we can finagle some vouchers for complimentary drinks.\'94\par
\'93As appreciative and as wealthy as he is, you could very well do better than that,\'94 Candace said. \'93The problem is that Kevin doesn\'92t want to go.\'94\par
\'93How come, sport?\'94 Melanie asked.\par
\'93I thought it would be a good idea for him to see the good side of what he\'92s been able to accomplish,\'94 Candace added.\par
Candace caught Melanie\'92s eye. Melanie understood Candace\'92s motivations immediately.\par
\'93Yeah,\'94 Melanie said. \'93Let\'92s get some positive feedback from a real, live patient. That should justify all this hard work and give us a boost.\'94\par
\'93I think it will make me feel worse,\'94 Kevin said. Ever since getting back to the lab, he\'92d been trying to concentrate on basic research to avoid facing his fears. The ploy had worked to an extent until his curiosity made him call up the Isla Francesca graphic on his computer terminal. Playing with the data had had an effect as bad as the smoke.\par
Melanie put her hands on her hips. \'93Why?\'94 she asked. \'93I don\'92t understand.\'94\par
\'93It\'92s hard to explain,\'94 Kevin said evasively.\par
\'93Try me,\'94 Melanie challenged.\par
\'93Because seeing him will remind me of things I\'92m trying not to think about,\'94 Kevin said. \'93Like what happened to the other patient.\'94\par
\'93You mean his double, the bonobo?\'94 Melanie asked.\par
Kevin nodded. His face was now flushed, almost as bad as it had been at the commissary.\par
\'93You\'92re taking this animal-rights issue even more seriously than I am,\'94 Candace remarked.\par
\'93I\'92m afraid it goes beyond animal rights,\'94 Kevin said.\par
A tense silence intervened. Melanie glanced at Candace. Candace shrugged, suggesting she was at a loss.\par
\'93Okay, enough is enough!\'94 Melanie said with sudden resolve. She reached up, placed both hands on Kevin\'92s shoulders, and pushed him down onto his laboratory stool.\par
\'93Up until this afternoon I thought we were just colleagues,\'94 she said. She leaned over and put her sharp-featured face close to Kevin\'92s. \'93But now I feel differently. I got to know you a little bit, which I must say I appreciated, and I no longer think of you as an icy, aloof, intellectual snob. In fact I think we are friends. Am I right?\'94\par
Kevin nodded. He was forced to look up into Melanie\'92s black, marble-like eyes.\par
\'93Friends talk to each other,\'94 Melanie said. \'93They communicate. They don\'92t hide their feelings and make others feel uncomfortable. Do you know what I\'92m saying?\'94\par
\'93I think so,\'94 Kevin said. He\'92d never considered the idea his behavior was capable of making others uncomfortable.\par
\'93Think so?\'94 Melanie chided. \'93How can I explain it so that you know so!\'94\par
Kevin swallowed. \'93I guess I know so.\'94\par
Melanie rolled her eyes in frustration. \'93You are so evasive, it drives me bananas. But that\'92s okay; I can deal with it. What I can\'92t deal with is your outburst at lunch. And when I tried to ask you what\'92s wrong, you gave some vague comment about \'91overstepping the bounds\'92 and then clammed up, unable to talk about it. You can\'92t let this fester, whatever it is that\'92s bothering you. It will only hurt you and impede your friendships.\'94\par
Candace nodded agreement with all that Melanie had expressed.\par
Kevin looked back and forth between the two outspoken and tenacious women. As much as he resisted expressing his fears, at the moment he didn\'92t think he had much choice, especially with Melanie\'92s face inches away from his own. Not knowing how to begin he said: \'93I\'92ve seen smoke coming from Isla Francesca.\'94\par
\'93What\'92s Isla Francesca?\'94 Candace asked.\par
\'93It\'92s the island where the transgenic bonobos go once they reach age three,\'94 Melanie said. \'93So what\'92s with smoke?\'94\par
Kevin stood and motioned for the women to follow him. He walked over to his desk. With his index finger he pointed out the window toward Isla Francesca. \'93I\'92ve seen the smoke three times,\'94 he said. \'93It\'92s always from the same place just to the left of the limestone ridge. It\'92s only a little curl snaking up into the sky, but it persists.\'94\par
Candace squinted. She was mildly nearsighted, but for vanity reasons didn\'92t wear glasses. \'93Is it the farthest island?\'94 she asked. She thought she could just make out some brownish smudges on its spine that could have been rock. In the late-afternoon sunlight, the other islands in the chain appeared like homogeneous mounds of dark green moss.\par
\'93That\'92s the one,\'94 Kevin said.\par
\'93So, big deal!\'94 Melanie commented. \'93A couple of little fires. With all the lightning around here it\'92s no wonder.\'94\par
\'93That\'92s what Bertram Edwards suggested,\'94 Kevin said. \'93But it can\'92t be lightning.\'94\par
\'93Who\'92s Bertram Edwards?\'94 Candace asked.\par
\'93Why can\'92t it be lightning?\'94 Melanie asked ignoring Candace. \'93Maybe there\'92s some metal ore in that rocky ridge.\'94\par
\'93Ever hear the expression lightning never strikes the same place twice?\'94 Kevin questioned. \'93The fire is not from lightning. Besides, the smoke persisted and has never moved.\'94\par
\'93Maybe some native people live out there,\'94 Candace said.\par
\'93GenSys was very sure that was not the case before choosing the island,\'94 Kevin said.\par
\'93Maybe some local fishermen visit,\'94 Candace suggested.\par
\'93All the locals know it is forbidden,\'94 Kevin said. \'93Because of the new Equatoguinean law it would be a capital offense. There\'92s nothing out there that would be worth dying for.\'94\par
\'93Then who started the fires?\'94 Candace asked.\par
\'93Good God, Kevin!\'94 Melanie exclaimed suddenly. \'93I\'92m beginning to get an idea what you\'92re thinking. But let me tell you, it\'92s preposterous.\'94\par
\'93What\'92s preposterous?\'94 Candace asked. \'93Will someone clue me in?\'94\par
\'93Let me show you something else,\'94 Kevin said. He turned to his computer terminal and with a few keystrokes called up the graphic of the island. He explained the system to the women, and as a demonstration, brought up the location of Melanie\'92s double. The little red light blinked just north of the escarpment very close to where his own had the day before.\par
\'93You have a double?\'94 Candace asked. She was dumbfounded.\par
\'93Kevin and I were the guinea pigs,\'94 Melanie said. \'93Our doubles were the first. We had to prove that the technology really works.\'94\par
\'93Okay, now that you women know how the locator system operates,\'94 Kevin said, \'93let me show you what I did an hour ago, and we\'92ll see if we get the same disturbing result.\'94 Kevin\'92s fingers played over the keyboard. \'93What I\'92m doing is instructing the computer to automatically locate all seventy-three of the doubles sequentially. The creatures\'92 numbers will occur in the corner followed by the blinking light on the graphic. Now watch.\'94 Kevin clicked to start.\par
The system worked smoothly with only a short delay between the number appearing and then the red blinking light.\par
\'93I thought there were closer to a hundred animals,\'94 Candace said.\par
\'93There are,\'94 Kevin said. \'93But twenty-two of them are less than three years old. They are in the bonobo enclosure at the animal center.\'94\par
\'93Okay,\'94 Melanie said after a few minutes of watching the computer function. \'93It\'92s working just as you said. What\'92s so disturbing?\'94\par
\'93Just hold on,\'94 Kevin said.\par
All at once the number 37 appeared but no blinking red light. After a few moments, a prompt flashed onto the screen. It said: \scaps animal not located: click to recommence\scaps0 .\par
Melanie looked at Kevin. \'93Where\'92s number thirty-seven?\'94\par
Kevin sighed. \'93What\'92s left is in the incinerator,\'94 he said. \'93Number thirty-seven was Mr. Winchester\'92s double. But that\'92s not what I wanted to show you.\'94 Kevin clicked and the program restarted. Then it stopped again at forty-two.\par
\'93Was that Mr. Franconi\'92s double?\'94 Candace asked. \'93The other liver transplant?\'94\par
Kevin shook his head. He pressed several keys, asking the computer the identity of forty-two. The name Warren Prescott appeared.\par
\'93So where\'92s forty-two?\'94 Melanie asked.\par
\'93I don\'92t know for sure, but I know what I fear,\'94 Kevin said. Kevin clicked and again the numbers and red lights alternately flashed on the screen.\par
When the entire program had run its course, it had indicated that seven of the bonobo doubles were unaccounted for, not including Franconi\'92s, which had been sacrificed.\par
\'93Is this what you found earlier?\'94 Melanie asked.\par
Kevin nodded. \'93But it wasn\'92t seven, it was twelve. And although some of the ones that were missing this morning are still missing, most of them have reappeared.\'94\par
\'93I don\'92t understand,\'94 Melanie said. \'93How can that be?\'94\par
\'93When I toured that island way back before all this started,\'94 Kevin said, \'93I remember seeing some caves in that limestone cliff. What I\'92m thinking is that our creations are going into the caves, maybe even living in them. It\'92s the only way I can think of to explain why the grid would fail to pick them up.\'94\par
Melanie brought up a hand to cover her mouth. Her eyes reflected a flicker of horror and dismay.\par
Candace saw Melanie\'92s reaction. \'93Hey, come on, guys,\'94 she pleaded. \'93What\'92s wrong? What are you thinking?\'94\par
Melanie lowered her hand. Her eyes were locked on Kevin\'92s. \'93What Kevin was referring to when he said he was terrified he\'92d overstepped the bounds,\'94 she explained in a slow, deliberate voice, \'93was the fear that he\'92d created a human.\'94\par
\'93You\'92re not serious!\'94 Candace exclaimed, but a glance at Kevin and then at Melanie indicated that she was.\par
For a full minute no one spoke.\par
Finally Kevin broke the silence. \'93I\'92m not suggesting a real human being in the guise of an ape,\'94 Kevin said finally. \'93I\'92m suggesting that I\'92ve inadvertently created a kind of protohuman. Maybe something akin to our distant ancestral forebears who spontaneously appeared in nature from apelike animals four or five million years ago. Maybe back then the critical mutations responsible for the change occurred in the developmental genes I\'92ve subsequently learned are on the short arm of chromosome six.\'94\par
Candace found herself blankly gazing out the window, while her mind replayed the scene two days previous in the OR when the bonobo was about to be inducted under anesthesia. He\'92d made curious humanlike sounds and tried desperately to keep his hands free so that he could continue to make the same wild gesture. He\'92d been constantly opening and closing his fingers and then sweeping his hands away from his body.\par
\'93You\'92re talking about some early hominidlike creature, something on the order of Homo erectus,\'94 Melanie said. \'93It\'92s true we noticed the infant transgenic bonobos tended to walk upright more than their mothers. At the time we just thought it was cute.\'94\par
\'93Not so early a hominid as not to have used fire,\'94 Kevin said. \'93Only true early man has used fire. And that\'92s what I\'92m worried I\'92ve been seeing on the island: campfires.\'94\par
\'93So, to put it bluntly,\'94 Candace said, turning away from the window. \'93We\'92ve got a bunch of cavemen out there like back in prehistoric time.\'94\par
\'93Something like that,\'94 Kevin said. As he\'92d expected the women were aghast. Strangely, he actually felt a little better now that he\'92d voiced his anxieties.\par
\'93What are we going to do?\'94 Candace demanded. \'93I\'92m certainly not going to be involved with sacrificing any more until this is resolved one way or the other. I was having a hard enough time dealing with the situation when I thought the victim was an ape.\'94\par
\'93Wait a sec,\'94 Melanie said. She spread her hands with fingers apart. Her eyes were blazing anew. \'93Maybe we\'92re jumping to conclusions here. There\'92s no proof of all this. Everything we\'92ve been talking about is circumstantial at best.\'94\par
\'93True, but there\'92s more,\'94 Kevin said. He turned back to the computer and instructed it to display the locations of all the bonobos on the island simultaneously. Within seconds, two red splotches began pulsating. One was in the location where Melanie\'92s double had been. The other was north of the lake. Kevin looked up at Melanie. \'93What does this data suggest to you?\'94\par
\'93It suggests there are two groups,\'94 she said. \'93Do you think it is permanent?\'94\par
\'93It was the same earlier,\'94 Kevin said. \'93I think it is a real phenomenon. Even Bertram mentioned it. That\'92s not typical of bonobos. They get along in larger social groups than chimps, plus these are all relatively young animals. They should all be in one group.\'94\par
Melanie nodded. Over the previous five years she\'92d learned a lot about bonobo behavior.\par
\'93And there is something else more upsetting,\'94 Kevin said. \'93Bertram told me one of the bonobos killed one of the pygmies on the retrieval of Winchester\'92s double. It wasn\'92t an accident. The bonobo aggressively threw a rock. That kind of aggression is more associated with human behavior than with bonobos.\'94\par
\'93I\'92d have to agree,\'94 Melanie said. \'93But it\'92s still circumstantial. All of it.\'94\par
\'93Circumstantial or not,\'94 Candace said, \'93I\'92m not going to have it on my conscience.\'94\par
\'93I feel the same way,\'94 Melanie said. \'93I\'92ve spent today getting two new female bonobos started on the egg-collection protocol. I\'92m not going to proceed until we find out if this wild idea about these possible protohumans is valid or not.\'94\par
\'93That\'92s not going to be easy,\'94 Kevin said. \'93To prove it, somebody has to go to the island. The trouble is there are only two people who can authorize a visit: Bertram Edwards or Siegfried Spallek. I already tried to talk with Bertram, and even though I brought up the issue about the smoke, he made it very clear that no one was allowed near the island accept for a pygmy who brings supplementary food.\'94\par
\'93Did you tell him what you are worried about?\'94 Melanie asked.\par
\'93Not in so many words,\'94 Kevin said. \'93But he knew. I\'92m sure of it. He wasn\'92t interested. The problem is that he and Siegfried have been included in the project bonuses. Consequently, they are going to make damn sure nothing threatens it. I\'92m afraid they\'92re venal enough not to care what\'92s on the island. And on top of their venality we have to weigh in Siegfried\'92s sociopathy.\'94\par
\'93Is he that bad?\'94 Candace asked. \'93I\'92d heard rumors.\'94\par
\'93Whatever you heard, it\'92s ten times worse,\'94 Melanie said. \'93He\'92s a major sleazeball. To give you an example, he executed some impoverished Equatoguinean men because they\'92d been caught poaching in the Zone, where he likes to hunt.\'94\par
\'93He killed them himself?\'94 Candace questioned with shock and revulsion.\par
\'93Not by himself,\'94 Melanie said. \'93He had the men tried in a kangaroo court here in Cogo. Then they were executed by a handful of Equatoguinean soldiers at the soccer field.\'94\par
\'93And to add insult to injury,\'94 Kevin said, \'93he uses the skulls as bowls for odds and ends on his desk.\'94\par
\'93Sorry I asked,\'94 Candace said with a shiver.\par
\'93What about Dr. Lyons?\'94 Melanie asked.\par
Kevin laughed. \'93Forget it. He\'92s more venal than Bertram. This whole operation is his baby. I tried to talk to him about the smoke, too. He was even less receptive. Claimed it was my imagination. Frankly I don\'92t trust him, although I have to give him credit for being generous with bonuses and stocks. He\'92s cleverly given everyone connected with the project a real stake in the venture, particularly Bertram and Siegfried.\'94\par
\'93So, that leaves it all up to us,\'94 Melanie said. \'93Let\'92s find out if it\'92s your imagination or not. What do you say the three of us take a quick trip to Isla Francesca?\'94\par
\'93You\'92re joking,\'94 Kevin said. \'93It\'92s a capital offense without authorization.\'94\par
\'93It\'92s a capital offense for locals,\'94 Melanie said. \'93That can\'92t apply to us. In our case, Siegfried has to answer to GenSys.\'94\par
\'93Bertram specifically forbade visits,\'94 Kevin said. \'93I offered to go by myself, and he said no.\'94\par
\'93Well, big deal,\'94 Melanie said. \'93So he gets mad. What is he going to do, fire us? I\'92ve been here long enough so that I don\'92t think that would be half bad. Besides, they can\'92t do without you. That\'92s the reality.\'94\par
\'93Do you think it might be dangerous?\'94 Candace asked.\par
\'93Bonobos are peaceful creatures,\'94 Melanie said. \'93Much more so than chimps, and chimps aren\'92t dangerous unless you corner them.\'94\par
\'93What about the man who was killed?\'94 Candace said.\par
\'93That was during a retrieval,\'94 Kevin said. \'93They had to get close enough to shoot a dart gun. Also, it was the fourth retrieval.\'94\par
\'93All we want to do is observe,\'94 Melanie said.\par
\'93Okay, how do we get there?\'94 Candace asked.\par
\'93Drive, I guess,\'94 Melanie said. \'93That\'92s how they go when they do a release or a retrieval. There must be some kind of bridge.\'94\par
\'93There\'92s a road that goes east along the coast,\'94 Kevin said. \'93It\'92s paved to the native village then it becomes a track. That\'92s how I went on the visit to the island before we started the program. For a hundred feet or so the island and the mainland are only separated by a channel thirty feet wide. Back then there was a wire suspension bridge stretched between two mahogany trees.\'94\par
\'93Maybe we can view the animals without even going across,\'94 Candace said. \'93Let\'92s do it.\'94\par
\'93You ladies are fearless,\'94 Kevin remarked.\par
\'93Hardly,\'94 Melanie said. \'93But I don\'92t see any problem with driving up there and checking the situation out. Once we know what we\'92re dealing with, we can make a better decision about what we want to do.\'94\par
\'93When do you want to do this?\'94 Kevin questioned.\par
\'93I\'92d say now,\'94 Melanie replied. She glanced at her watch. \'93There\'92s no better time. Ninety percent of the population of the town is either at the waterfront chickee bar, splashing around in the pool, or sweating buckets at the athletic center.\'94\par
Kevin sighed, let his arms fall limply to his sides, and capitulated. \'93Whose car should we take?\'94 he asked.\par
\'93Yours,\'94 Melanie said without hesitation. \'93Mine doesn\'92t even have four-wheel drive.\'94\par
As the trio descended the stairs and made their way across the sweltering blacktop of the parking area, Kevin had the gnawing sense they were making a mistake. But in the face of the women\'92s resolve, he felt reluctant to voice his reservations.\par
On the east exit of the town, they passed the athletic center\'92s tennis courts, which were chockful of players. Between the humidity and heat, the players looked as drenched as if they\'92d jumped into a swimming pool with their tennis outfits on.\par
Kevin drove. Melanie sat in the front passenger seat, while Candace sat in the back. The windows were all open, since the temperature had fallen into the high eighties. The sun was low in the west, directly behind them and peeking in and out of clouds along the horizon.\par
Just beyond the soccer field the vegetation closed in around the road. Brightly colored birds flitted in and out of the deepening shadows. Large insects annihilated themselves against the windshield like miniature kamikaze pilots.\par
\'93The jungle looks dense,\'94 Candace said. She\'92d never traveled east from the town.\par
\'93You have no idea,\'94 Kevin said. When he\'92d first arrived he\'92d tried to take some hikes in the area, but with the profusion of vines and creepers, it was all but impossible without a machete.\par
\'93I just had a thought about the aggression issue,\'94 Melanie said. \'93The passivity of bonobo society is generally attributed to its matriarchal character. Because of the skewed demand for male doubles, our program has a population that\'92s mostly male. There has to be a lot of competition for the few females.\'94\par
\'93That\'92s a good point,\'94 Kevin agreed. He wondered why Bertram hadn\'92t thought of it.\par
\'93Sounds like my type of place,\'94 Candace joked. \'93Maybe I should book Isla Francesca instead of Club Med on my next vacation.\'94\par
Melanie laughed. \'93Let\'92s go together,\'94 she said.\par
They passed a number of Equatoguineans on their way home from work in Cogo. Most of the women carried jugs and parcels on top of their heads. The men were generally empty-handed.\par
\'93It\'92s a strange culture,\'94 Melanie commented. \'93The women do the lion\'92s share of the work: growing the food, carrying the water, raising the kids, cooking the meals, taking care of the house.\'94\par
\'93What do the men do?\'94 Candace asked.\par
\'93Sit around and discuss metaphysics,\'94 Melanie said.\par
\'93I just had an idea,\'94 Kevin said. \'93I don\'92t know why I didn\'92t think of it before. Maybe we should talk to the pygmy who takes out the food to the island first and hear what he has to say.\'94\par
\'93Sounds like a good idea to me,\'94 Melanie said. \'93Do you know his name?\'94\par
\'93Alphonse Kimba,\'94 Kevin said.\par
When they reached the native village, they pulled to a stop in front of the busy general store and got out. Kevin went inside to inquire after the pygmy.\par
\'93This place is almost too charming,\'94 Candace said as she looked around the neighborhood. \'93It looks African but like something you\'92d see in Disneyland.\'94\par
GenSys had built the village with the cooperation of the Equatoguinean Minister of the Interior. The homes were circular, whitewashed mud brick with thatched roofs. Corrals for domestic animals were made of reed mats lashed to wooden stakes. The structures appeared traditional, but every one of them was new and spotless. They also had electricity and running water. Buried underground were powerlines and modern sewers.\par
Kevin returned quickly. \'93No problem,\'94 he said. \'93He lives close by. Come on, we\'92ll walk.\'94\par
The village was alive with men, women, and children. Traditional cooking fires were in the process of being lit. Everyone acted happy and friendly from having been recently freed from the captivity of the interminable rainy season.\par
Alphonse Kimba was less than five feet tall with skin as black as onyx. A constant smile dominated his wide, flat face as he welcomed his unexpected visitors. He tried to introduce his wife and child, but they were shy and shrunk back into the shadows.\par
Alphonse invited his guests to sit on a reed mat. He then got four glasses and poured a dollop of clear fluid into each from an old green bottle that had at one time contained motor oil.\par
His visitors warily swirled the fluid. They didn\'92t want to seem ungrateful, but they were reluctant to drink.\par
\'93Alcohol?\'94 Kevin asked.\par
\'93Oh, yes!\'94 Alphonse said. His smile broadened. \'93It is lotoko from corn. Very good! I bring it from my home in Lomako.\'94 He sipped with intense enjoyment. In contrast to the Equatoguineans, Alphonse\'92s English was accented with French, not Spanish. He was a member of the Mongandu people from Zaire. He\'92d been brought to the Zone with the first shipment of bonobos.\par
Since the drink contained alcohol, which would presumably kill potential microorganisms, the guests cautiously tasted the brew. All of them made faces in spite of good intentions not to do so. The drink was powerfully pungent.\par
Kevin explained that they had come to ask about the bonobos on the island. He didn\'92t mention his concern that their number included a strain of protohumans. He asked only if Alphonse thought they were acting like bonobos back in his home province in Zaire.\par
\'93They are all very young,\'94 Alphonse said. \'93So they are very unruly and wild.\'94\par
\'93Do you go on the island often?\'94 Kevin asked.\par
\'93No, I am forbidden,\'94 Alphonse said. \'93Only when we retrieve or release, and only then with Dr. Edwards.\'94\par
\'93How do you get the extra food to the island?\'94 Melanie asked.\par
\'93There is a small float,\'94 Alphonse said. \'93I pull it across the water with a rope, then pull it back.\'94\par
\'93Are the bonobos aggressive with the food or do they share?\'94 Melanie asked.\par
\'93Very aggressive,\'94 Alphonse said. \'93They fight like crazy, especially for the fruit. I also saw one kill a monkey.\'94\par
\'93Why?\'94 Kevin asked.\par
\'93I think to eat,\'94 Alphonse said. \'93He carried it away after the food I brought was all gone.\'94\par
\'93That sounds more like a chimp,\'94 Melanie said to Kevin.\par
Kevin nodded. \'93Where on the island have the retrievals taken place?\'94 he asked.\par
\'93All have been on this side of the lake and stream,\'94 Alphonse said.\par
\'93None have been over by the cliff?\'94 Kevin asked.\par
\'93No, never,\'94 Alphonse said.\par
\'93How do you get to the island for the retrieval?\'94 Kevin asked. \'93Does everybody use the float?\'94\par
Alphonse laughed heartily. He had to dry his eyes with his knuckle. \'93The float is too small. We\'92d all be supper for the crocs. We use the bridge.\'94\par
\'93Why don\'92t you use the bridge for the food?\'94 Melanie asked.\par
\'93Because Dr. Edwards has to make the bridge grow,\'94 Alphonse said.\par
\'93Grow?\'94 Melanie questioned.\par
\'93Yes,\'94 Alphonse said.\par
The three guests exchanged glances. They were confused.\par
\'93Have you seen any fire on the island?\'94 Kevin asked, changing the subject.\par
\'93No fire,\'94 Alphonse said. \'93But I\'92ve seen smoke.\'94\par
\'93And what did you think?\'94 Kevin asked.\par
\'93Me?\'94 Alphonse questioned. \'93I didn\'92t think anything.\'94\par
\'93Have you ever seen one of the bonobos do this?\'94 Candace asked. She opened and closed her fingers then swept her hand away from her body in imitation of the bonobo in the operating room.\par
\'93Yes,\'94 Alphonse said. \'93Many do that when they finish dividing up the food.\'94\par
\'93How about noise?\'94 Melanie asked. \'93Do they make a lot of sounds?\'94\par
\'93A lot,\'94 Alphonse said.\par
\'93Like the bonobos back in Zaire?\'94 Kevin asked.\par
\'93More,\'94 Alphonse said. \'93But back in Zaire I don\'92t see the same bonobos so often as I do here, and I don\'92t feed them. Back home they get their own food in the jungle.\'94\par
\'93What kind of noise do they make?\'94 Candace asked. \'93Can you give us an example.\'94\par
Alphonse laughed self-consciously. He glanced around at his wife to make sure she wasn\'92t listening. Then he softly vocalized: \'93Eeee, ba da, loo loo, tad tat.\'94 He laughed again. He was embarrassed.\par
\'93Do they hoot like chimps?\'94 Melanie asked.\par
\'93Some,\'94 Alphonse said.\par
The guests looked at each other. They\'92d run out of questions for the moment. Kevin got up. The women did the same. They thanked Alphonse for his hospitality and handed back their unfinished drinks. If Alphonse was offended, he didn\'92t show it. His smile didn\'92t falter.\par
\'93There\'92s one other thing,\'94 Alphonse said just before his guests departed. \'93The bonobos on the island like to show off. Whenever they come for the food, they make themselves stand up.\'94\par
\'93All the time?\'94 Kevin asked.\par
\'93Mostly,\'94 Alphonse said.\par
The group walked back through the village to the car. They didn\'92t talk until Kevin had started the motor.\par
\'93Well, what do you guys think?\'94 Kevin asked. \'93Should we continue? The sun\'92s already set.\'94\par
\'93I vote yes,\'94 Melanie said. \'93We\'92ve come this far.\'94\par
\'93I agree,\'94 Candace said. \'93I\'92m curious to see this bridge that grows.\'94\par
Melanie laughed. \'93Me, too. What a charming fellow.\'94\par
Kevin drove away from the store, which was now busier than earlier. But he wasn\'92t sure of his direction. The road into the village had simply expanded into the parking area for the store, and there was no indication of the track leading further east. To find it, he had to cruise the parking lot\'92s perimeter.\par
Once on the track, they were impressed with how much easier it had been to travel on the improved road. The track was narrow, bumpy, and muddy. Grass about three feet tall grew down the median strip. Frequently branches stretched from one side to the other, slapping against the windshield and poking through the open windows. To avoid being hit by the snapping branches, they had to raise the windows. Kevin clicked on the air conditioner and the lights. The beams reflected off the surrounding vegetation and gave the impression of driving through a tunnel.\par
\'93How far do we have to go on this cow path?\'94 Melanie asked.\par
\'93Only three or four miles,\'94 Kevin said.\par
\'93It\'92s a good thing we have four-wheel drive,\'94 Candace remarked. She was holding on tightly to the overhead strap and still bouncing around. The seat belt wasn\'92t helping. \'93The last thing I\'92d want to do is get stuck out here.\'94 She glanced out the side window at the inky black jungle and shivered. It was eerie. She couldn\'92t see a thing despite patches of luminous sky above. And then there was the noise. Just during their short visit with Alphonse, the night creatures of the jungle had commenced their loud and monotonous chorus.\par
\'93What did you make of the things Alphonse said?\'94 Kevin asked finally.\par
\'93I\'92d say the jury is still out,\'94 Melanie said. \'93But they\'92re certainly deliberating.\'94\par
\'93I think his comment about the bonobos being bipedal when they come to get the food is very disturbing,\'94 Kevin said. \'93The circumstantial evidence is adding up.\'94\par
\'93The suggestion that they are communicating impressed me,\'94 Candace said.\par
\'93Yeah, but chimps and gorillas have been taught sign language,\'94 Melanie said. \'93And we know bonobos are more bipedal than any other apes. What impressed me was the aggressive behavior, although I stand by my idea that it might be from our mistake not to have produced more females to maintain the balance.\'94\par
\'93Can chimps make those sounds that Alphonse imitated?\'94 Candace asked.\par
\'93I don\'92t think so,\'94 Kevin said. \'93And that\'92s an important point. It suggests maybe their larynges are different.\'94\par
\'93Do chimps really kill monkeys?\'94 Candace asked.\par
\'93They do occasionally,\'94 Melanie said. \'93But I\'92ve never heard of a bonobo doing so.\'94\par
\'93Hang on!\'94 Kevin shouted as he braked.\par
The car lurched over a log strewn across the track.\par
\'93Are you okay?\'94 he asked Candace, while glancing up into the rearview mirror.\par
\'93No problem,\'94 Candace said, although she\'92d been severely jolted. Luckily the seat belt had worked, and it had kept her head from hitting the roof.\par
Kevin slowed considerably for fear of encountering another log. Fifteen minutes later, they entered a clearing which marked the termination of the track. Kevin came to a halt. Directly ahead the headlight beams washed the front of a single-story cinder-block building with an overhead garage door.\par
\'93Is this it?\'94 Melanie questioned.\par
\'93I guess,\'94 Kevin said. \'93The building is new to me.\'94\par
Kevin switched off the lights and the engine. With the clearing open to the sky the level of illumination was adequate. For a moment no one moved.\par
\'93What\'92s the story?\'94 Kevin asked. \'93Are we going to check it out or what?\'94\par
\'93Might as well,\'94 Melanie said. \'93We\'92ve come this far.\'94 She opened her door and got out. Kevin did the same.\par
\'93I think I\'92ll stay in the car,\'94 Candace said.\par
Kevin went to the building and tried the door. It was locked. He shrugged. \'93I can\'92t imagine what\'92s in there.\'94 Kevin slapped a mosquito on his forehead.\par
\'93How do we get to the island?\'94 Melanie asked.\par
Kevin pointed to the right. \'93There\'92s a track over there. It\'92s only about fifty yards to the water\'92s edge.\'94\par
Melanie glanced up at the sky. It was a pale lavender. \'93It\'92s going to be dark pretty soon. Do you have a flashlight in the car?\'94\par
\'93I think so,\'94 Kevin said. \'93More important, I have some mosquito spray. We\'92re going to get eaten alive out here unless we use it.\'94\par
They went back to the car. Just as they arrived, Candace climbed out.\par
\'93I can\'92t stay in here by myself,\'94 she said. \'93It\'92s too spooky.\'94\par
Kevin got the mosquito spray. While the women doused themselves, he searched for the flashlight. He found it in the glove compartment.\par
After spraying himself, Kevin motioned for the women to follow him. \'93Stay close,\'94 he said. \'93The crocodiles and the hippos come out of the water at night.\'94\par
\'93Is he joking?\'94 Candace asked Melanie.\par
\'93I don\'92t think so,\'94 Melanie said.\par
As soon as they entered the path, the illumination fell considerably although it was still light enough to walk without the flashlight. Kevin led while the two women crowded behind. The closer they got to the water the louder the chorus of insects and frogs became.\par
\'93How did I get myself into this?\'94 Candace questioned. \'93I\'92m no outdoors person. I can\'92t even conceive of a crocodile or a hippo outside of a zoo. Hell, any bug bigger than my thumbnail terrifies me, and spiders, forget it.\'94\par
All of the sudden, there was a crashing noise off to the left. Candace let out a muffled scream, as she grabbed Melanie who then did likewise. Kevin whimpered and switched on the light. He pointed the beam in the direction of the noise, but it only penetrated a few feet.\par
\'93What was that?\'94 Candace demanded when she could find her voice.\par
\'93Probably a duiker,\'94 Kevin said. \'93They\'92re a small breed of antelope.\'94\par
\'93Antelope or elephant,\'94 Candace said. \'93It scared me.\'94\par
\'93It scared me, too,\'94 Kevin said. \'93Maybe we should go back and return in the daytime.\'94\par
\'93We\'92ve come all this way for crissake,\'94 Melanie said. \'93We\'92re there. I can hear the water.\'94\par
For a moment no one moved. Sure enough, they could hear water lapping against the shore.\par
\'93What happened to all the night creatures?\'94 Candace asked.\par
\'93Good question,\'94 Kevin said. \'93The antelope must have scared them as well.\'94\par
\'93Turn the light off,\'94 Melanie said.\par
As soon as Kevin did, they all could see the shimmering surface of the water through the vegetation. It looked like liquid silver.\par
Melanie led the way as the chorus of night creatures recommenced. The path opened up into another clearing at the edge of the river. In the middle of the clearing was a dark object almost the size of the garage back where they\'92d left the car. Kevin walked up to it. It wasn\'92t hard to figure out what it was: it was the bridge.\par
\'93It\'92s a telescoping mechanism,\'94 Kevin said. \'93That\'92s why Alphonse said that it could grow.\'94\par
About thirty feet across the water was Isla Francesca. In the fading light, its dense vegetation appeared midnight-blue. Directly across from the telescoping bridge was a concrete structure that served as the support for the bridge when it was extended. Beyond that was an expansive clearing that extended to the east.\par
\'93Try extending the bridge,\'94 Melanie suggested.\par
Kevin switched on the flashlight. He found the control panel. There were two buttons: one red, the other green. He pushed the red one. When nothing happened, he pushed the green. When there still wasn\'92t a reaction, he noticed a keyhole with the slot aligned with \scaps off\scaps0 .\par
\'93You need a key,\'94 he called.\par
Melanie and Candace had walked over to the water\'92s edge.\par
\'93There\'92s a bit of current,\'94 Melanie said. Leaves and other debris floated by slowly.\par
Candace looked up. The top branches of some of the trees that lined either bank almost touched. \'93Why do the creatures stay on the island?\'94 she asked.\par
\'93Apes and monkeys don\'92t go in the water, particularly deep water,\'94 Melanie explained. \'93That\'92s why zoos only need a moat for their primate exhibits.\'94\par
\'93What about crossing in the trees?\'94 Candace asked.\par
Kevin joined the women at the riverbank. \'93The bonobos are relatively heavy fellows,\'94 he explained, \'93particularly ours. Most of them are already over a hundred pounds, and the branches up there aren\'92t nearly strong enough to support their weight. Back before we put the first animals on the island, there were a couple of questionable places so those trees were cut down. But colobus monkeys still go back and forth.\'94\par
\'93What are all those square objects in the field?\'94 Melanie asked.\par
Kevin shined the flashlight. Its beam wasn\'92t strong enough to make much difference at that distance. He turned it off and squinted in the half light. \'93They look like transport cages from the animal center,\'94 he said.\par
\'93I wonder what they are doing out there?\'94 Melanie asked. \'93There\'92re so many of them.\'94\par
\'93No idea,\'94 Kevin said.\par
\'93How can we get some of the bonobos to appear?\'94 Candace asked.\par
\'93By this time they\'92re probably settling down for the night,\'94 Kevin said. \'93I doubt if we can.\'94\par
\'93What about the float?\'94 Melanie asked. \'93The mechanism that pulls it across must be like a clothesline. If it makes noise, they might hear it. It would be like a dinner bell and might bring them around.\'94\par
\'93Guess it\'92s worth a try,\'94 Kevin said. He glanced up and down the water\'92s edge. \'93Trouble is, we don\'92t have any idea where the float may be.\'94\par
\'93I can\'92t imagine it would be far,\'94 Melanie said. \'93You go east, I\'92ll go west.\'94\par
Kevin and Melanie walked in opposite directions. Candace stayed were she was, wishing she were back in her room in the hospital quarters.\par
\'93Here it is!\'94 Melanie called out. She\'92d followed a path in the dense foliage for a short distance before coming to a pulley attached to a thick tree. A heavy rope hung around the pulley. One end disappeared into the water. The other end was tied to a four-foot square float nestled against the shore.\par
Kevin and Candace joined her. Kevin shined the flashlight across to the island. On the other side a similar pulley was attached to a similar tree.\par
Kevin handed the flashlight to Melanie and grasped the rope that drooped into the water. When he pulled, he could see the pulley on the other side swing out from the trunk of the tree.\par
Kevin pulled on the rope hand over hand. The pulleys complained bitterly with high-pitched squeaking noises. The float immediately moved away from the shore on its way to the other side.\par
\'93This might work,\'94 Kevin said. While he pulled, Melanie swept the other shore with the flashlight beam. When the float was halfway across, there was a loud splash to their right as a large object dropped into the water from the island.\par
Melanie shined the light in the direction of the splash. Two glowing slits of light reflected back from the surface of the water. Peering at them was a large crocodile.\par
\'93Good lord!\'94 Candace said as she stepped back from the water.\par
\'93It\'92s okay,\'94 Kevin said. He let go of the rope, reached down and picked up a stout stick. He threw the stick at the croc. With another loud splash the crocodile disappeared beneath the water.\par
\'93Oh, great!\'94 Candace said. \'93Now we have no idea where he is.\'94\par
\'93He\'92s gone,\'94 Kevin said. \'93They\'92re not dangerous unless you\'92re in the water or they\'92re very hungry.\'94\par
\'93Who\'92s to say he\'92s not hungry?\'94 Candace commented.\par
\'93There\'92s plenty for them to eat out here,\'94 Kevin said as he picked up the rope and recommenced pulling. When the float reached the other side, he switched ropes and started pulling it back.\par
\'93Ah, it\'92s too late,\'94 he said. \'93This isn\'92t going to work. The closest nesting area we saw on the computer graphic is over a mile away. We\'92ll have to try this in the daytime.\'94\par
No sooner had these words escaped from his mouth when the night was shattered by a number of fearsome screams. At the same time, there was wild commotion in the bushes on the island as if a stampeding elephant was about to appear.\par
Kevin dropped the rope. Both Candace and Melanie fled back along the path a few steps before stopping. With pulses pounding they froze, waiting for another scream. With a shaking hand, Melanie shined the flashlight at the area where the commotion had occurred. Everything was still. Not a leaf moved.\par
Ten tense seconds passed that seemed more like ten minutes. The group strained their ears to pick up the slightest sound. There was nothing but utter silence. All the night creatures had fallen silent. It was as if the entire jungle was waiting for a catastrophe.\par
\'93What in heaven\'92s name was that?\'94 Melanie asked finally.\par
\'93I\'92m not sure I want to find out,\'94 Candace said. \'93Let\'92s get out of here.\'94\par
\'93It must have been a couple of the bonobos,\'94 Kevin said. He reached out and grabbed the rope. The float was being buffeted in midstream. He quickly hauled it in.\par
\'93I think Candace is right,\'94 Melanie said. \'93It\'92s gotten too dark to see much even if they did appear. I\'92m spooked. Let\'92s go!\'94\par
\'93You\'92ll not get an argument from me,\'94 Kevin said as he made his way over to the women. \'93I don\'92t know what we\'92re doing here at this hour. We\'92ll come back in the daylight.\'94\par
They hurried along the path to the clearing as best they could. Melanie led with the flashlight. Candace was behind her, holding on to her blouse. Kevin brought up the rear.\par
\'93It would be great to get a key for this bridge,\'94 Kevin said as they passed the structure.\par
\'93And how do you propose to do that?\'94 Melanie asked.\par
\'93Borrow Bertram\'92s,\'94 Kevin said.\par
\'93But you told us he forbid anyone to go to the island,\'94 Melanie said. \'93He\'92s certainly not going to lend the key.\'94\par
\'93We\'92ll have to borrow it without his knowledge,\'94 Kevin said.\par
\'93Oh, yeah, sure,\'94 Melanie said sarcastically.\par
They entered the tunnel-like path leading up to the car. Halfway to the parking area Melanie said: \'93God, it\'92s dark. Am I holding the light okay for you guys?\'94\par
\'93It\'92s fine,\'94 Candace said.\par
Melanie slowed then stopped.\par
\'93What\'92s the matter?\'94 Kevin asked.\par
\'93There\'92s something strange,\'94 she said. She cocked her head to the side, listening.\par
\'93Now don\'92t get me scared,\'94 Candace warned.\par
\'93The frogs and crickets haven\'92t restarted their racket,\'94 Melanie said.\par
In the next instant all hell broke loose. A loud, repetitive stuttering noise splintered the jungle stillness. Branches, twigs, and leaves rained down on the group. Kevin recognized the noise and reacted by reflex. Extending his arms, he literally tackled the women so that all three fell to the moist insect-infested earth.\par
The reason Kevin recognized the sound was because he once had inadvertently witnessed the Equatoguinean soldiers practicing. The noise was the sound of a machine gun.\par
\par
\par
\pard\qj\fs32 CHAPTER 10\par
\pard\fi283\qj\fs24\par
\pard\qr MARCH 5, 1997\par
2:15 P.M.\par
NEW YORK CITY\par
\pard\fi283\qj\par
\pard\qj\'93EXCUSE me, Laurie,\'94 Cheryl Myers said, standing in the doorway to Laurie\'92s office. Cheryl was one of the forensic investigators. \'93We just received this overnight package, and I thought you might want it right away.\'94\par
\pard\fi283\qj Laurie stood up and took the parcel. She was curious about what it could be. She looked at the label to find out the sender. It was CNN.\par
\'93Thanks, Cheryl,\'94 Laurie said. She was perplexed. She had no idea for the moment what CNN could have sent her.\par
\'93I see Dr. Mehta is not in,\'94 Cheryl said. \'93I brought up a chart for her that came in from University Hospital. Should I put it on her desk?\'94 Dr. Riva Mehta was Laurie\'92s office mate. They\'92d shared the space since both had started at the medical examiner\'92s office six and a half years previously.\par
\'93Sure,\'94 Laurie said, preoccupied with her parcel. She got her finger under the flap and pulled it open. Inside was a videotape. Laurie looked at the label. It said: \scaps Carlo Franconi shooting, March 3,1997\scaps0 .\par
After having finished her final autopsy that morning, Laurie had been ensconced in her office, trying to complete some of the twenty-odd cases that she had pending. She\'92d been busy reviewing microscopic slides, laboratory results, hospital records, and police reports, and for several hours had not thought of the Franconi business. The arrival of the tape brought it all back. Unfortunately the video was meaningless without the body.\par
Laurie tossed the tape into her briefcase and tried to get back to work. But after fifteen minutes of wasted effort, she turned the light off under her microscope. She couldn\'92t concentrate. Her mind kept toying with the baffling question of how the body had disappeared. It was as if it had been an amazing magic trick. One minute the body was safely stored in compartment one eleven and viewed by three employees, then poof, it was gone. There had to be an explanation, but try as she might, Laurie could not fathom it.\par
Laurie decided to head down to the basement to visit the mortuary office. She\'92d expected at least one tech to be available, but when she arrived the room was unoccupied. Undaunted, Laurie went over to the large, leather-bound log. Flipping the page, she looked for the entries that Mike Passano had shown her the previous night. She found them without difficulty. Taking a pencil from a collection in a coffee mug and a sheet of scratch paper, Laurie wrote down the names and accession numbers of the two bodies that had come in during the night shift: Dorothy Kline #101455 and Frank Gleason #100385. She also wrote down the names of the two funeral homes: Spoletto in Ozone Park, New York, and the Dickson in Summit, New Jersey.\par
Laurie was about to leave when her eye caught the large Rolodex on the corner of the desk. She decided to call each home. After identifying herself, she asked to speak to the managers.\par
What had sparked her interest in telephoning was the outside chance that either one of the pickups could have been bogus. She thought the chances were slim, since the night tech, Mike Passano, had said the homes had called before coming and presumably he was familiar with the people.\par
As Laurie expected, the pickups indeed were legitimate, both managers attesting to the fact that the bodies had come in to their respective homes and were at that time on view.\par
Laurie went back to the logbook and looked again at the names of the two arrivals. To be complete, she copied them down along with their accession numbers. The names were familiar to her, since she\'92d assigned them as autopsies the following morning to Paul Plodgett. But she wasn\'92t as interested in the arrivals as the departures. The arrivals had come in with longtime ME employees, whereas the bodies that had gone out had done so with strangers.\par
Feeling frustrated, Laurie drummed her pencil on the desk surface. She was sure she had to be missing something. Once again, her eye caught the Rolodex which was open to the Spoletto Funeral Home. In the very back of Laurie\'92s mind, the name made a hazy association. For a moment, she struggled with her memory. Why was that name familiar? Then she remembered. It had been during the Cerino affair. A man had been murdered in the Spoletto Funeral Home on orders from Paul Cerino, Franconi\'92s predecessor.\par
Laurie pocketed her memo, pushed away from the desk and returned to the fifth floor. She walked directly to Jack\'92s office. The door was ajar. She knocked on the jamb. Both Jack and Chet looked up from their respective labors.\par
\'93I had a thought,\'94 Laurie said to Jack.\par
\'93Just one?\'94 Jack quipped.\par
Laurie threw her pencil at him, which he easily evaded. She plopped down in the chair to his right and told him about the mob connection with the Spoletto Funeral Home.\par
\'93Good grief, Laurie,\'94 Jack complained. \'93Just because there is a mob hit in a funeral home, doesn\'92t mean that it is mob-connected.\'94\par
\'93You don\'92t think so?\'94 Laurie asked. Jack didn\'92t have to answer. She could see by his expression. And, now that she thought about her idea, she understood it was a ridiculous notion. She\'92d been grabbing for straws.\par
\'93Besides,\'94 Jack said. \'93Why won\'92t you just leave this alone?\'94\par
\'93I told you,\'94 Laurie said. \'93It\'92s a personal thing.\'94\par
\'93Maybe I can channel your efforts into a more positive direction,\'94 Jack said. He motioned toward his microscope. \'93Take a look at a frozen section. Tell me what you think.\'94\par
Laurie got up from the chair and leaned over the microscope. \'93What is this, the shotgun entrance wound?\'94 she asked.\par
\'93Just as sharp as usual,\'94 Jack commented. \'93You\'92re right on the money.\'94\par
\'93Well, it\'92s not a hard call,\'94 Laurie said. \'93I\'92d say the muzzle was within inches of the skin.\'94\par
\'93My opinion exactly,\'94 Jack said. \'93Anything else?\'94\par
\'93My gosh, there\'92s absolutely no extravasation of blood!\'94 Laurie said. \'93None at all, so this had to have been a postmortem wound.\'94 She raised her head and looked at Jack. She was amazed. She\'92d assumed it had been the mortal wound.\par
\'93Ah, the power of modern science,\'94 Jack commented. \'93This floater you foisted on me is turning into a bastard of a case.\'94\par
\'93Hey, you volunteered,\'94 Laurie said.\par
\'93I\'92m teasing,\'94 Jack said. \'93I\'92m glad I got the case. The shotgun wounds were definitely postmortem, so was the decapitation and removal of the hands. Of course the propeller injuries were, too.\'94\par
\'93What was the cause of death?\'94 Laurie asked.\par
\'93Two other gunshot wounds,\'94 Jack said. \'93One through the base of the neck.\'94 He pointed to an area just above his right collarbone. \'93And another in the left side that shattered the tenth rib. The irony was that both slugs ended up in the mass of shotgun pellets in the right upper abdominal area and were difficult to be seen on the X ray.\'94\par
\'93Now that\'92s a first,\'94 Laurie said. \'93Bullets hidden by shotgun pellets. Amazing! The beauty of this job is that you see new things every day.\'94\par
\'93The best is yet to come,\'94 Jack said.\par
\'93This is a \'91beaut,\'92\~\'94 Chet said. He\'92d been listening to the conversation. \'93It\'92ll be perfect for one of the forensic pathology dinner seminars.\'94\par
\'93I think the shotgun blasts were an attempt to shield the victim\'92s identity as much as the decapitation and removal of the hands,\'94 Jack said.\par
\'93In what way?\'94 Laurie asked.\par
\'93I believe this patient had had a liver transplant,\'94 Jack said. \'93And not that long ago. The killer must have understood that such a procedure put the patient in a relatively small group, and hence jeopardized the chances of hiding the victim\'92s identity.\'94\par
\'93Was there much liver left?\'94 Laurie asked.\par
\'93Very little,\'94 Jack said. \'93Most of it was destroyed by the shotgun injury.\'94\par
\'93And the fish helped,\'94 Chet said.\par
Laurie winced.\par
\'93But I was able to find some liver tissue,\'94 Jack said. \'93We\'92ll use that to corroborate the transplant. As we speak, Ted Lynch ip in DNA is running a DQ alpha. We\'92ll have the results in an hour or so. But for me the clincher was the sutures in the vena cava and the hepatic artery.\'94\par
\'93What\'92s a DQ alpha?\'94 Laurie asked.\par
Jack laughed. \'93Makes me feel better that you don\'92t know,\'94 he said, \'93because I had to ask Ted the same question. He told me it is a convenient and rapid DNA marker for differentiating two individuals. It compares the DQ region of the histocompatibility complex on chromosome six.\'94\par
\'93What about the portal vein?\'94 Laurie asked. \'93Were there sutures in it as well?\'94\par
\'93Unfortunately, the portal vein was pretty much gone,\'94 Jack said. \'93Along with a lot of the intestines.\'94\par
\'93Well,\'94 Laurie said. \'93This should all make identification rather easy.\'94\par
\'93My thought exactly,\'94 Jack said. \'93I\'92ve already got Bart Arnold hot on the trail. He\'92s been in contact with the national organ procurement organization UNOS. He\'92s also in the process of calling all the centers actively doing liver transplants, especially here in the city.\'94\par
\'93That\'92s a small list,\'94 Laurie said. \'93Good job, Jack.\'94\par
Jack\'92s face reddened slightly, and Laurie was touched. She thought he was immune to such compliments.\par
\'93What about the bullets?\'94 Laurie asked. \'93Same gun?\'94\par
\'93We\'92ve packed them off to the police lab for ballistics,\'94 Jack said. \'93It was hard to say if they came from the same gun or not because of their distortion. One of them made direct contact with the tenth rib and was flattened. Even the second one wasn\'92t in good shape. I think it grazed the vertebral column.\'94\par
\'93What calibre?\'94 Laurie asked.\par
\'93Couldn\'92t tell from mere observation,\'94 Jack said.\par
\'93What did Vinnie say?\'94 Laurie asked. \'93He\'92s become pretty good at guessing.\'94\par
\'93Vinnie\'92s worthless today,\'94 Jack said. \'93He\'92s been in the worst mood I\'92ve ever seen him in. I asked him what he thought, but he wouldn\'92t say. He told me it was my job, and that he wasn\'92t paid enough to be giving his opinions all the time.\'94\par
\'93You know, I had a case similar to this back during that awful Cerino affair,\'94 Laurie said. She stared off and for a moment, her eyes glazed over. \'93The victim was a secretary of the doctor who was involved with the conspiracy. Of course, she\'92d not had a liver transplant, but the head and the hands were gone, and I did make the identification because of her surgical history.\'94\par
\'93Someday you\'92ll have to tell me that whole grisly story,\'94 Jack said. \'93You keep dropping tantalizing bits and pieces.\'94\par
Laurie sighed. \'93I wish I could just forget the whole thing. It still gives me nightmares.\'94\par
\par
\pard\qj Raymond glanced at his watch as he opened the Fifth Avenue door to Dr. Daniel Levitz\'92s office. It was two forty-five. Raymond had called the doctor three times starting just after eleven \scaps a.m\scaps0 ., without success. On each occasion, the receptionist had promised Dr. Levitz would phone back, but he hadn\'92t. In his agitated state, Raymond found the discourtesy aggravating. Since Dr. Levitz\'92s office was just around the corner from Raymond\'92s apartment, Raymond thought it was better to walk over than sit by the phone.\par
\pard\fi283\qj\'93Dr. Raymond Lyons,\'94 Raymond said with authority to the receptionist. \'93I\'92m here to see Dr. Levitz.\'94\par
\'93Yes, Dr. Lyons,\'94 the receptionist said. She had the same cultivated, matronly look as Dr. Anderson\'92s receptionist. \'93I don\'92t have you down on my appointment sheet. Is the doctor expecting you?\'94\par
\'93Not exactly,\'94 Raymond said.\par
\'93Well, I\'92ll let the doctor know you are here,\'94 the receptionist said noncommitally.\par
Raymond took a seat in the crowded waiting room. He picked up one of the usual doctor waiting-room magazines and flipped the pages without focusing on the images. His agitation was becoming tinged with irritation, and he began to wonder if it had been a bad decision to come to Dr. Levitz\'92s office.\par
The job of checking on the first of the other two transplant patients had been easy. With one phone call Raymond had spoken with the recruiting doctor in Dallas, Texas. The doctor had assured Raymond that his kidney-transplant patient, a prominent local businessman, was doing superbly and was in no way a possible candidate for an autopsy. Before hanging up the doctor had promised Raymond to inform him if the situation were ever to change.\par
But with Dr. Levitz\'92s failure to return Raymond\'92s phone call, Raymond had not been able to check on the last case. It was frustrating and anxiety-producing.\par
Raymond\'92s eyes roamed the room. It was as sumptuously appointed as Dr. Anderson\'92s, with original oils, deep burgundy-colored walls, and oriental carpets. The patients patiently waiting were all obviously well-to-do as evidenced by their clothes, bearing, and jewels.\par
As the minutes ticked by, Raymond found his irritation mounting. What was adding insult to injury at the moment was Dr. Levitz\'92s obvious success. It reminded Raymond of the absurdity of his own medical license being in legal limbo just because he\'92d gotten caught padding his Medicare claims. But here was Dr. Levitz working away in all this splendor with at least part of his receipts coming from taking care of a number of crime families. Obviously, it all represented dirty money. And on top of that Raymond was sure Levitz padded his Medicare claims. Hell, everybody did.\par
A nurse appeared and cleared her throat. Expectantly, Raymond moved to the edge of his seat. But the nurse called out another name. While the summoned patient got up, replaced his magazine, and disappeared into the bowels of the office, Raymond slouched back against the sofa and fumed. Being at the mercy of such people made Raymond long for financial security all the more. With this current \'93doubles\'94 program he was so close. He couldn\'92t let the whole enterprise crumble for some stupid, unexpected, easily remedied reason.\par
It was three-fifteen when finally Raymond was ushered into Daniel Levitz\'92s inner sanctum. Levitz was a small, balding man with multiple nervous tics. He had a mustache but it was sparse and decidedly unmanly. Raymond had always wondered what it was about the man that apparently inspired confidence in so many patients.\par
\'93It\'92s been one of those days,\'94 Daniel said by way of explanation. \'93I didn\'92t expect you to drop by.\'94\par
\'93I hadn\'92t planned on it myself,\'94 Raymond said. \'93But when you didn\'92t return my calls, I didn\'92t think I had a choice.\'94\par
\'93Calls?\'94 Daniel questioned. \'93I didn\'92t get any calls from you. I\'92ll have to have another talk with that receptionist of mine. Good help is so difficult to come by these days.\'94\par
Raymond was tempted to tell Daniel to cut the bull, but he resisted. After all, he was finally talking to the man, and turning the meeting into a confrontation wouldn\'92t solve anything. Besides, as irritating as Daniel Levitz could be, he was also Raymond\'92s most successful recruit. He had signed up twelve clients for the program as well as four doctors.\par
\'93What can I do for you?\'94 Daniel asked. His head twitched several times in its usual and disconcerting way.\par
\'93First I want to thank you for helping out the other night,\'94 Raymond said. \'93From the absolute pinnacles of power it was thought to be an emergency. Publicity at this point would have meant an end to the whole enterprise.\'94\par
\'93I was glad to be of service,\'94 Daniel said. \'93And pleased that Mr. Vincent Dominick was willing to help out to preserve his investment.\'94\par
\'93Speaking of Mr. Dominick,\'94 Raymond said. \'93He paid me an unexpected visit yesterday morning.\'94\par
\'93I hope on a cordial note,\'94 Daniel said. He was quite familiar with Dominick\'92s career as well as his personality, and surmised that extortion would not be out of the question.\par
\'93Yes and no,\'94 Raymond admitted. \'93He insisted on telling me details I didn\'92t want to know. Then he insisted on paying no tuition for two years.\'94\par
\'93It could have been worse,\'94 Daniel said. \'93What does that mean to my percentage?\'94\par
\'93The percentage stays the same,\'94 Raymond said. \'93It\'92s just that it becomes a percentage of nothing.\'94\par
\'93So, I help and then get penalized!\'94 Daniel complained. \'93That\'92s hardly fair.\'94\par
Raymond paused. He\'92d not thought about Daniel\'92s loss of his cut of Dominick\'92s tuition, yet it was something that had to be faced. At present, Raymond was reluctant to upset the man.\par
\'93You have a valid point,\'94 Raymond conceded. \'93Let\'92s say we\'92ll discuss it in the near future. At the moment, I have another concern. What\'92s the status of Cindy Carlson?\'94\par
Cindy Carlson was the sixteen-year-old daughter of Albright Carlson, the Wall Street junk-bond mogul. Daniel had recruited Albright and his daughter as clients. As a youngster the daughter had suffered from glomerulonephritis. The malady had worsened during the girl\'92s early teens to the point of kidney failure. Consequently, Daniel not only had the record number of clients, he also had the record number of harvests, two: Carlo Franconi and Cindy Carlson.\par
\'93She\'92s been doing fine,\'94 Daniel said. \'93At least healthwise. Why do you ask?\'94\par
\'93This Franconi business has made me realize how vulnerable the enterprise is,\'94 Raymond admitted. \'93I want to be sure there are no other possible loose ends.\'94\par
\'93Don\'92t worry about the Carlsons,\'94 Daniel said. \'93They certainly aren\'92t going to cause us any trouble. They couldn\'92t be any more grateful. In fact, just last week Albright was talking about getting his wife out to the Bahamas to give a bone-marrow sample so she can become a client as well.\'94\par
\'93That\'92s encouraging,\'94 Raymond said. \'93We can always use more clients. But it\'92s not the demand side of the enterprise that has me worried. Financially we couldn\'92t be doing any better. We\'92re ahead of all projections. It\'92s the unexpected that has me worried, like Franconi.\'94\par
Daniel nodded and then twitched. \'93There\'92s always uncertainty,\'94 he said philosophically. \'93That\'92s life!\'94\par
\'93The lower the level of uncertainty, the better I\'92ll feel,\'94 Raymond said. \'93When I asked you about Cindy Carlson\'92s status, you qualified your positive response as healthwise. Why?\'94\par
\'93Because she\'92s a basket case mentally,\'94 Daniel said.\par
\'93How do you mean?\'94 Raymond asked. Once again his pulse quickened.\par
\'93It\'92s hard to imagine a kid not being a bit crazy growing up with a father like Albright Carlson.\'94 Daniel said. \'93Think about it. And then add the burden of a chronic illness. Whether that contributed to her obesity, I don\'92t know. The girl is quite overweight. That\'92s tough enough for anybody but especially so for a teen. The poor kid is understandably depressed.\'94\par
\'93How depressed?\'94 Raymond asked.\par
\'93Depressed enough to attempt suicide on two occasions,\'94 Daniel said. \'93And they weren\'92t just childish bids for attention. They were bona fide attempts, and the only reason she\'92s still with us is because she was discovered almost immediately and because she\'92d tried drugs the first time and hanging herself the second. If she\'92d had a gun she surely would have succeeded.\'94\par
Raymond groaned out loud.\par
\'93What\'92s the matter?\'94 Daniel asked.\par
\'93All suicides are medical examiner cases,\'94 Raymond said.\par
\'93I hadn\'92t thought of that,\'94 Daniel said.\par
\'93This is the kind of loose end I was referring to,\'94 Raymond said. \'93Damn! Just our luck!\'94\par
\'93Sorry to be the bearer of bad tidings,\'94 Daniel said.\par
\'93It\'92s not your fault,\'94 Raymond said. \'93The important thing is that we recognize it for what it is, and that we understand we can\'92t sit idly by and wait for catastrophe.\'94\par
\'93I don\'92t think we have much choice,\'94 Daniel said.\par
\'93What about Vincent Dominick?\'94 Raymond said. \'93He\'92s helped us once and with his own child ill, he has a vested interest in our program\'92s future.\'94\par
Dr. Daniel Levitz stared at Raymond. \'93Are you suggesting\~.\~.\~.\~?\'94\par
Raymond didn\'92t reply.\par
\'93This is where I draw the line,\'94 Daniel said. He stood up. \'93I\'92m sorry, but I have a waiting-room full of patients.\'94\par
\'93Couldn\'92t you call Mr. Dominick and just ask?\'94 Raymond said. He felt a wave of desperation wash over him.\par
\'93Absolutely not,\'94 Daniel said. \'93I might take care of a number of criminally connected individuals, but I certainly don\'92t get involved with their business.\'94\par
\'93But you helped with Franconi,\'94 Raymond complained.\par
\'93Franconi was a corpse on ice at the medical examiner\'92s office,\'94 Daniel said.\par
\'93Then give me Mr. Dominick\'92s phone number,\'94 Raymond said. \'93I\'92ll call him myself. And I\'92ll need the Carlsons\'92 address.\'94\par
\'93Ask my receptionist,\'94 Daniel said. \'93Just tell her you\'92re a personal friend.\'94\par
\'93Thank you,\'94 Raymond said.\par
\'93But just remember,\'94 Daniel said. \'93I deserve and want the percentages that are due to me regardless of what happens between you and Vinnie Dominick.\'94\par
\par
\pard\qj At first the receptionist was reluctant to give Raymond the phone number and the addresses, but after a quick call to her boss, she relented. Wordlessly, she copied the information onto the back of one of Dr. Daniel Levitz\'92s business cards and handed it to Raymond.\par
\pard\fi283\qj Raymond wasted no time getting back to his apartment on Sixty-fourth Street. As he came through the door, Darlene asked how the meeting with the doctor had gone.\par
\'93Don\'92t ask,\'94 Raymond said curtly. He went into his paneled study, closed the door, and sat down at his desk. Nervously, he dialed the phone. In his mind\'92s eye, he could see Cindy Carlson either scrounging around in the medicine cabinet for her mother\'92s sleeping pills or hanging out in the local hardware store buying a length of rope.\par
\'93Yeah, what is it?\'94 a voice said on the other end of the line.\par
\'93I\'92d like to speak to Mr. Vincent Dominick,\'94 Raymond said with as much authority as he could muster. He detested the necessity to deal with the likes of these people, but he had little choice. Seven years of intense labor and commitment were on the line, not to mention his entire future.\par
\'93Who\'92s calling?\'94\par
\'93Dr. Raymond Lyons.\'94\par
There was a pause before the man said: \'93Hang on!\'94\par
To Raymond\'92s surprise he was put on hold with one of Beethoven\'92s sonatas playing in the background. To Raymond it seemed like some sort of oxymoron.\par
A few minutes later Vinnie Dominick\'92s dulcet voice came over the line. Raymond could picture the man\'92s practiced and deceptive banality as if Vinnie were a well-dressed character actor playing himself.\par
\'93How did you get this number, Doctor?\'94 Vinnie asked. His tone was nonchalant, yet somehow more threatening because of it. Raymond\'92s mouth went bone-dry. He had to cough.\par
\'93Dr. Levitz gave it to me,\'94 Raymond managed.\par
\'93What can I do for you, Doctor?\'94 Vinnie asked.\par
\'93Another problem has come up,\'94 Raymond croaked. He cleared his throat again. \'93I\'92d like to see you to discuss it.\'94\par
There was a pause that went on for longer than Raymond could tolerate. Just when he was about to ask if Vinnie was still there, the mobster responded: \'93When I got involved with you people I thought it was supposed to give me peace of mind. I didn\'92t think it was supposed to make my life more complicated.\'94\par
\'93These are just minor growing pains,\'94 Raymond said. \'93In actuality, the project is going extremely well.\'94\par
\'93I\'92ll meet you in the Neopolitan Restaurant on Corona Avenue in Elmhurst in a half hour,\'94 Vinnie said. \'93Think you can find it?\'94\par
\'93I\'92m certain I can,\'94 Raymond said. \'93I\'92ll take a cab, and I\'92ll leave immediately.\'94\par
\'93See you there,\'94 Vinnie said before hanging up.\par
Raymond rummaged hastily through the top drawer of his desk for his New York City map that included all five boroughs. He spread the map out on his desk, and using the index, located Corona Avenue in Elmhurst. He estimated that he could make it easily in half an hour provided the traffic wasn\'92t bad on the Queensborough Bridge. That was a concern because it was almost four o\'92clock: the beginning of rush hour.\par
As Raymond came flying out of his study, pulling his coat back on, Darlene asked him where he was going. He told her he didn\'92t have time to explain. He said he\'92d be back in an hour or so.\par
Raymond ran to Park Avenue, where he caught a cab. It was a good thing he\'92d brought his map along because the Afghan taxi driver had no idea even where Elmhurst was, much less Corona Avenue.\par
The trip was not easy. Just getting across the East Side of Manhattan took almost a quarter of an hour. And then the bridge was stop-and-go. By the time Raymond was supposed to be at the restaurant, his cab had just reached Queens. But from there it was easy going, and Raymond was only fifteen minutes late when he walked into the restaurant and pushed aside a heavy, velvet curtain.\par
It was immediately apparent the restaurant was not open for business. Most of the chairs were upside down on top of the tables. Vinnie Dominick was sitting by himself in one of the curved, red velvet-upholstered booths that lined the walls. In front of him were a newspaper and a small cup of expresso. A lighted cigarette lay in a glass ashtray.\par
Four other men were smoking at the bar, sprawled on bar stools. Two of them Raymond recognized from their visit to his apartment. Behind the bar was an overweight bearded man washing glassware. The rest of the restaurant was empty.\par
Vinnie waved Raymond to his booth.\par
\'93Sit down, Doc,\'94 Vinnie said. \'93A coffee?\'94\par
Raymond nodded as he slid into the banquette. It took some effort because of the nap of the velvet. The room was chilly, damp, and smelled of the previous night\'92s garlic and the accumulated smoke of five-years\'92 worth of cigarettes. Raymond was happy to keep on his hat and coat.\par
\'93Two coffees,\'94 Vinnie called out to the man behind the bar. Wordlessly, the man turned to an elaborate Italian expresso machine and began manipulating the controls.\par
\'93You surprised me, Doc,\'94 Vinnie said. \'93I truly never expected to hear from you again.\'94\par
\'93As I mentioned on the phone there\'92s another problem,\'94 Raymond said. He leaned forward and spoke in a low voice just above a whisper.\par
Vinnie spread his hands. \'93I\'92m all ears.\'94\par
As succinctly as he could, Raymond outlined the situation with Cindy Carlson. He emphasized the fact that all suicides were medical examiner cases and had to be autopsied. There were no exceptions.\par
The overweight man from behind the bar brought out the coffees. Vinnie didn\'92t respond to Raymond\'92s monologue until the bartender had gone back to his glassware.\par
\'93Is this Cindy Carlson the daughter of Albright Carlson?\'94 Vinnie asked. \'93The Wall Street legend?\'94\par
Raymond nodded. \'93That\'92s partly why this situation is so important,\'94 he said. \'93If she commits suicide it will undoubtedly garner considerable media attention. The medical examiners will be particularly vigilant.\'94\par
\'93I get the picture,\'94 Vinnie said as he took a sip of his coffee. \'93What is it exactly that you would want us to do?\'94\par
\'93I wouldn\'92t presume to offer any suggestions,\'94 Raymond said nervously. \'93But you can appreciate that this problem is on a par with the Franconi situation.\'94\par
\'93So you want this sixteen-year-old girl to just conveniently disappear,\'94 Vinnie said.\par
\'93Well, she has tried to kill herself twice,\'94 Raymond said limply. \'93In a way, we\'92d just be doing her a favor.\'94\par
Vinnie laughed. He picked up his cigarette, took a drag, and then ran his hand over the top of his head. His hair was slicked back smoothly from his forehead. He regarded Raymond with his dark eyes.\par
\'93You\'92re a piece of work, Doc,\'94 Vinnie said. \'93I gotta give you credit for that.\'94\par
\'93Perhaps I can offer another year of free tuition,\'94 Raymond said.\par
\'93That\'92s very generous of you,\'94 Vinnie said. \'93But you know something, Doc, it\'92s not enough. In fact, I\'92m getting a little fed up with this whole operation. And I\'92ll tell you straight: if it weren\'92t for Vinnie Junior\'92s kidney problems, I\'92d probably just ask for my money back, and we\'92d go our separate ways. You see, I\'92m already looking at potential problems from the first favor I did for you. I got a call from my wife\'92s brother who runs the Spoletto Funeral Home. He\'92s all upset because a Dr. Laurie Montgomery called asking embarrassing questions. Tell me, Doc. Do you know this Dr. Laurie Montgomery?\'94\par
\'93No, I don\'92t,\'94 Raymond said. He swallowed loudly.\par
\'93Hey, Angelo, come over here!\'94 Vinnie called out.\par
Angelo slid off his bar stool and came to the table.\par
\'93Sit down, Angelo,\'94 Vinnie said. \'93I want you to tell the good doctor here about Laurie Montgomery.\'94\par
Raymond had to move farther into the booth to give room for Angelo. He felt distinctly uncomfortable being sandwiched between the two men.\par
\'93Laurie Montgomery is a smart, persistent individual,\'94 Angelo said with his husky voice. \'93To put it bluntly, she\'92s a pain in the ass.\'94\par
Raymond avoided looking at Angelo. His face was mostly scar tissue. Since his eyes didn\'92t close properly, they were red and rheumy.\par
\'93Angelo had an unfortunate run-in with Laurie Montgomery a few years back,\'94 Vinnie explained. \'93Angelo, tell Raymond what you learned today after we heard from the funeral home.\'94\par
\'93I called Vinnie Amendola, our contact in the morgue,\'94 Angelo said. \'93He told me that Laurie Montgomery specifically said that she was going to make it her personal business to find out how Franconi\'92s body disappeared. Needless to say he\'92s very concerned.\'94\par
\'93See what I mean,\'94 Vinnie said. \'93We got a potential problem here just because we did you a favor.\'94\par
\'93I\'92m very sorry,\'94 Raymond said lamely. He couldn\'92t think of any other response.\par
\'93It brings us back to this tuition issue,\'94 Vinnie said. \'93Under the circumstances I think the tuition should just be waived. In other words, no tuition for me or Vinnie junior forever.\'94\par
\'93I do have to answer to the parent corporation,\'94 Raymond squeaked. He cleared his throat.\par
\'93Fine,\'94 Vinnie said. \'93Doesn\'92t bother me in the slightest. Explain to them it\'92s a valid business expense. Hey, maybe you could even use it as a deduction on your taxes.\'94 Vinnie laughed heartily.\par
Raymond shuddered imperceptibly. He knew he was being unfairly muscled, yet he had little choice. \'93Okay,\'94 he managed.\par
\'93Thank you,\'94 Vinnie said. \'93Gosh, I guess this is going to work out after all. We\'92ve become sort\'92a business partners. Now I trust you have Cindy Carlson\'92s address?\'94\par
Raymond fumbled in his pocket and produced Dr. Levitz\'92s business card. Vinnie took it, copied down the address from the back, and handed it back. Vinnie gave the address to Angelo.\par
\'93Englewood, New Jersey,\'94 Angelo said, reading aloud.\par
\'93Is that a problem?\'94 Vinnie asked.\par
Angelo shook his head.\par
\'93Then, it\'92s arranged,\'94 Vinnie said, looking back at Raymond. \'93So much for your latest problem. But I advise you not to come up with any more. With our current tuition understanding it seems to me you\'92re out of bargaining chips.\'94\par
A few minutes later, Raymond was out on the street. He realized he was shaking as he looked at his watch. It was close to five and getting dark. Stepping off the curb, he raised his hand to flag a cab. \i What a disaster!\i0  he thought. Somehow he would have to absorb the cost of maintaining Vinnie Doinick\'92s and his son\'92s double for the rest of their lives.\par
A cab pulled over. Raymond climbed in and gave his home address. As he sped away from the Neopolitan Restaurant, he began to feel better. The actual cost of maintaining the two doubles was minuscule, since the animals lived in isolation on a deserted island. So the situation wasn\'92t that bad, especially since the potential problem with Cindy Carlson was now solved.\par
By the time Raymond entered his apartment his mood had improved significantly, at least until he got in the door.\par
\'93You\'92ve had two calls from Africa,\'94 Darlene reported.\par
\'93Problems?\'94 Raymond asked. There was something about Darlene\'92s voice that set off alarm bells.\par
\'93There was good news and bad news,\'94 Darlene said. \'93The good news was from the surgeon. He said that Horace Winchester is doing miraculously and that you should start planning on coming to pick him and the surgical team up.\'94\par
\'93What\'92s the bad news?\'94 Raymond asked.\par
\'93The other call was from Siegfried Spallek,\'94 Darlene said. \'93He was a little vague. He said there was some trouble with Kevin Marshall.\'94\par
\'93What kind of trouble?\'94 Raymond asked.\par
\'93He didn\'92t elaborate,\'94 Darlene said.\par
Raymond remembered specifically asking Kevin not to do anything rash. He wondered if the researcher had not heeded his warning. It must have had something to do with that stupid smoke Kevin had seen.\par
\'93Did Spallek want me to call back tonight?\'94 Raymond asked.\par
\'93It was eleven o\'92clock his time when he called,\'94 Darlene said. \'93He said he could talk to you tomorrow.\'94\par
Raymond groaned inwardly. Now he\'92d have to spend the entire night worrying. He wondered when it was all going to end.\par
\par
\par
\pard\qj\fs32 CHAPTER 11\par
\pard\fi283\qj\fs24\par
\pard\qr MARCH 5, 1997\par
11:30 P.M.\par
COGO, EQUATORIAL GUINEA\par
\pard\fi283\qj\par
\pard\qj KEVIN heard the heavy metal door open at the top of the stone stairs and a crack of light cascaded in. Two seconds later, the string of bare lightbulbs in the ceiling of the corridor went on. Through the bars of his cell, he could see Melanie and Candace in their respective cells. They were squinting as he was in the sudden glare.\par
\pard\fi283\qj Heavy footfalls on the granite stairs preceded Siegfried Spallek\'92s appearance. He was accompanied by Cameron McIvers and Mustapha Aboud, chief of the Moroccan guards.\par
\'93It\'92s about time, Mr. Spallek!\'94 Melanie snapped. \'93I demand to be let out of here this instant, or you\'92ll be in serious trouble.\'94\par
Kevin winced. It was not the way to talk with Siegfried Spallek on any occasion, much less in their current circumstance.\par
Kevin, Melanie, and Candace had been huddling in utter blackness in separate cells in the oppressively hot, dank, jail in the basement of the town hall. Each cell had a small, arched window that opened into a window well in the rear arcade of the building. The openings were barred but without glass, so vermin could pass through unimpeded. All three prisoners had been terrified by the sounds of scampering creatures, especially since they\'92d seen several tarantulas before the lights had been turned out. The only source of comfort had been that they could easily talk to each other.\par
The first five minutes of the evening\'92s ordeal had been the worst. As soon as the sound of the burst of machine-gun fire died out, Kevin and the women were blinded by large hand-held lights. When their eyes had finally adjusted, they saw that they\'92d walked into an ambush of sorts. They were surrounded by a jeering group of youthful Equatoguinean soldiers who\'92d delighted in casually aiming their AK-47\'92s at them. Several had been brazen enough to poke the women with the muzzles of their weapons.\par
Fearing the worst, Kevin and the others hadn\'92t moved a muscle. They\'92d been scared witless by the indiscriminate gunfire and terrified it might begin again at the slightest provocation.\par
Only at the appearance of several of the Moroccan guards did the unruly soldiers back off. Kevin had never imagined the intimidating Arabs as potential saviors, but that\'92s how it had turned out. The guards had assumed custody of Kevin and the women. Then the guards drove them in Kevin\'92s car, first to the Moroccan guard building across from the animal center, where they\'92d been placed in a windowless room for several hours, and then finally into town, where they\'92d been incarcerated in the old jail.\par
\'93This is outrageous treatment,\'94 Melanie persisted.\par
\'93On the contrary,\'94 Siegfried said. \'93I have been assured by Mustapha that you have been treated with all due respect.\'94\par
\'93Respect!\'94 Melanie sputtered. \'93To be shot at with machine guns! And kept in this shithole in the dark! That\'92s respect?\'94\par
\'93You were not shot at,\'94 Siegfried corrected. \'93Those were merely a few warning shots directed over your heads. You had, after all, violated an important rule here in the Zone. Isla Francesca is off-limits. Everyone knows that.\'94\par
Siegfried motioned to Cameron toward Candace. Cameron opened her cell with a large, antique key. Candace wasted no time getting out of the cell. She hastily dusted off her clothes to make sure there were no bugs. She was still dressed in her surgical scrubs from the hospital.\par
\'93My apologies to you,\'94 Siegfried said to Candace. \'93I imagine you were led astray by our resident researchers. Perhaps you were not even aware of the rule against visiting the island area.\'94\par
Cameron opened Melanie\'92s cell and then Kevin\'92s.\par
\'93As soon as I heard about your detention, I tried to call Dr. Raymond Lyons,\'94 Siegfried said. \'93I wanted to ask his opinion as to the best way to handle this situation. Since he was unavailable, I have to take responsibility myself. I am releasing you all on your own recognizance. I trust that you now know the seriousness of your actions. Under Equatoguinean law it could be considered a capital offense.\'94\par
\'93Oh, bull!\'94 Melanie spat.\par
Kevin cringed. He was afraid Melanie would anger Siegfried enough to order them back into the cells. Benevolence was not a part of Siegfried\'92s character.\par
Mustapha extended Kevin\'92s car keys to him. \'93Your vehicle is out back,\'94 he said with a heavy French accent.\par
Kevin took the keys. His hand shook enough to cause them to jingle until he got his hand and the keys into his pocket.\par
\'93I\'92m sure I will be speaking to Dr. Lyons sometime tomorrow,\'94 Siegfried said. \'93I will contact you individually. You may go.\'94\par
Melanie started to speak again, but Kevin surprised himself by grabbing her arm and propelling her toward the stairs.\par
\'93I\'92ve had enough manhandling,\'94 Melanie sputtered. She tried to pull her arm from Kevin\'92s grasp.\par
\'93Let\'92s just get into the car,\'94 Kevin whispered harshly through clenched teeth. He forced her to keep moving.\par
\'93What a night!\'94 Melanie complained. At the base of the stairs, she managed to yank her arm free. Irritably, she started up.\par
Kevin waited for Candace to precede him, then followed the women up to the ground floor. They emerged into an office used by the Equatoguinean soldiers that were constantly seen lounging in front of the town hall. There were four of them present.\par
With the base manager, the head of security, and the chief of the Moroccan guards in the building, the soldiers were a good deal more attentive than usual. All four were standing in their interpretation of attention, with their assault rifles over their shoulders. When Kevin and the women appeared, their expressions suggested they were confused.\par
Melanie gave them the finger as Kevin herded her and Candace out the door into the parking lot.\par
\'93Please, Melanie,\'94 Kevin begged. \'93Don\'92t provoke them!\'94\par
Whether the soldiers did not understand the meaning of Melanie\'92s gesture or were bewildered by the anomalous circumstances, Kevin didn\'92t know. One way or the other, they didn\'92t come flying out after them as Kevin feared they might.\par
They got to the car. Kevin opened the passenger-side door. Candace climbed in eagerly. But not Melanie. She turned to Kevin with her eyes blazing in the dim light.\par
\'93Give me the keys,\'94 she demanded.\par
\'93What?\'94 Kevin asked, even though he\'92d heard her.\par
\'93I said give me the keys,\'94 Melanie repeated.\par
Confused by this unexpected request but not wishing to incite her more than she already was, Kevin handed her the car keys. Melanie immediately went around to the other side of the car and got in behind the wheel. Kevin climbed into the passenger seat. He didn\'92t care who drove as long as they got themselves out of there.\par
Melanie started the car, spun the tires, and drove out of the parking lot.\par
\'93Jeez, Melanie,\'94 Kevin said. \'93Slow down!\'94\par
\'93I\'92m pissed,\'94 Melanie said.\par
\'93As if I couldn\'92t tell,\'94 Kevin said.\par
\'93I\'92m not going home just yet,\'94 Melanie said. \'93But I\'92d be happy to take you guys home if you want.\'94\par
\'93Where do you want to go?\'94 Kevin asked. \'93It\'92s almost midnight.\'94\par
\'93I\'92m going out to the animal center,\'94 Melanie said. \'93I\'92m not going to tolerate being treated like this without finding out what the hell is going on.\'94\par
\'93What\'92s at the animal center?\'94 Kevin asked.\par
\'93The keys to that goddamned bridge,\'94 Melanie said. \'93I want one, because for me this affair has gone beyond curiosity.\'94\par
\'93Maybe we should stop and talk about this,\'94 Kevin suggested.\par
Melanie jammed on the brakes, bringing them to a lurching stop. Both Kevin and Candace had to push themselves back into their respective seats.\par
\'93I\'92m going to the animal center,\'94 Melanie repeated. \'93You guys can either come along or I\'92ll drop you off. It\'92s your call.\'94\par
\'93Why tonight?\'94 Kevin asked.\par
\'93One, because I\'92m really ticked off right now,\'94 Melanie said. \'93And two, because they wouldn\'92t suspect it. Obviously, they intend for us to go home and quake in our beds. That\'92s why we were so mistreated. But you know something, that\'92s not my style.\'94\par
\'93That\'92s my style,\'94 Kevin said.\par
\'93I think Melanie is right,\'94 Candace said from the backseat. \'93They were deliberately trying to scare us.\'94\par
\'93And I think they did a damn good job,\'94 Kevin said. \'93Or am I the only sane one in the group?\'94\par
\'93Let\'92s do it,\'94 Candace said.\par
\'93Oh, no!\'94 Kevin groaned. \'93I\'92m outnumbered.\'94\par
\'93We\'92ll take you home,\'94 Melanie said. \'93No problem.\'94 She started to put the car in reverse.\par
Kevin reached out and stayed her hand. \'93How do you propose to get the keys? You don\'92t even know where they\'92d be.\'94\par
\'93I think it\'92s pretty clear they\'92d be in Bertram\'92s office,\'94 Melanie said. \'93He\'92s the one in charge of logistics for the bonobo program. Hell, you\'92re the one who suggested he had them.\'94\par
\'93Okay, they\'92re in Bertram\'92s office,\'94 Kevin said. \'93But what about security? Offices are locked.\'94\par
Melanie reached into the breast pocket of her animal-center coveralls and pulled out a magnetic card. \'93You\'92re forgetting that I\'92m part of the animal-center hierarchy. This is a master card, and not the kind that competes with VISA. This thing gets me in every door of the animal center twenty-four hours a day. Remember, my work with the bonobo project is only a part of the fertility work I do.\'94\par
Kevin looked over the back of his seat at Candace. Her blond hair was luminous in the half light of the car interior. \'93If you\'92re game, Candace, I guess I\'92m game,\'94 he said.\par
\'93Let\'92s go!\'94 Candace said.\par
Melanie accelerated and turned north beyond the motor pool. The motor pool was in full operation, with huge mercury-vapor lamps illuminating the entire staging area. The motor pool\'92s night shift was larger than either the day or evening shifts since that\'92s when truck traffic between the Zone and Bata was at its peak.\par
Melanie zipped past a number of tractor trailers until the turnoff to Bata fell behind. From that point, all the way to the animal center, they didn\'92t see another vehicle.\par
The animal center worked three shifts just like the motor pool did, although in the animal center the night shift was the smallest. The majority of the night staff worked in the veterinary hospital. Melanie took advantage of this fact by pulling Kevin\'92s Toyota up to one of the animal-hospital doors. There the car had lots of company.\par
Melanie turned off the ignition and gazed at the animal-center entrance that led directly into the veterinary hospital. She drummed her fingers on the steering wheel.\par
\'93Well?\'94 Kevin said. \'93We\'92re here, what\'92s the plan?\'94\par
\'93I\'92m thinking,\'94 Melanie said. \'93I can\'92t decide what\'92s best: whether you guys wait here or come with me.\'94\par
\'93This place is huge,\'94 Candace said. She\'92d leaned forward and was gazing at the building in front of them. It ran from the street all the way back to where it disappeared into the jungle foliage. \'93For as many times as I\'92ve been to Cogo, I\'92ve never been out here at the animal center. I didn\'92t have any idea it was so large. Is this part we\'92re facing the hospital?\'94\par
\'93Yup,\'94 Melanie said. \'93This whole wing.\'94\par
\'93I\'92d be interested to see it,\'94 Candace said. \'93I\'92ve never been in a veterinary hospital let alone one that\'92s so palatial.\'94\par
\'93It\'92s state-of-the-art,\'94 Melanie said. \'93You should see the ORs.\'94\par
\'93Oh my God,\'94 Kevin sighed. He rolled his eyes. \'93I\'92ve been ensnared by the insane. We\'92ve just had the most harrowing experience in our lives, and you\'92re talking about taking a tour.\'94\par
\'93It\'92s not going to be a tour,\'94 Melanie said as she alighted from the car. \'93Come on, Candace. I\'92m sure I can use your help. Kevin, you can wait here if you\'92d like.\'94\par
\'93Fine by me,\'94 Kevin said. But it only took him a few moments of watching the women trudge toward the entrance before he, too, climbed out of the car. He decided that the anxiety of waiting would be worse than the stress of going.\par
\'93Wait up,\'94 Kevin called out. He had to run a few steps until he\'92d caught up with the others.\par
\'93I don\'92t want to hear any complaining,\'94 Melanie told Kevin.\par
\'93Don\'92t worry,\'94 Kevin said. He felt like a teenager being chastised by his mother.\par
\'93I don\'92t anticipate any problems,\'94 Melanie said. \'93Bertram Edwards\'92s office is in the administration part of the building, which at this time will be deserted. But just to be sure we don\'92t arouse any suspicion, once we\'92re inside, we\'92ll head down to the locker room. I want you guys in animal center coveralls. Okay? I mean it\'92s not really the time anyone would expect to encounter visitors.\'94\par
\'93Sounds like a good idea to me,\'94 Candace said.\par
\par
\pard\qj\'93All right,\'94 Bertram said into the phone. His eye caught the luminous dial of his bedside clock. It was quarter past midnight. \'93I\'92ll meet you at your office in five minutes.\'94\par
\pard\fi283\qj Bertram swung his legs over the edge of the bed and parted the mosquito netting.\par
\'93Trouble?\'94 Trish, his wife, asked. She\'92d pushed herself up on one elbow.\par
\'93Just a nuisance,\'94 Bertram said. \'93Go back to sleep! I\'92ll be back in a half hour or so.\'94\par
Bertram closed the door to the bedroom before turning on the dressing-room light. He dressed quickly. Although he\'92d downplayed the situation to Trish, Bertram was anxious. He had no idea what was going on, but it had to be trouble. Siegfried had never called him in the middle of the night with a request to come to his office.\par
Outside, it was as bright as daytime with a nearly full moon having risen in the east. The sky was filled with silvery-purple cumulus clouds. The night air was heavy and humid and perfectly still. The sounds of the jungle were an almost constant cacophony of buzzes, chirps, and squawks interrupted with occasional short screams. It was a noise Bertram had grown accustomed to over the years, and it didn\'92t even register in his mind.\par
Despite the distance to the town hall being only a few hundred yards, Bertram drove. He knew it would be faster, and every minute that passed raised his curiosity. As he pulled into the parking lot, he could see that the usually lethargic soldiers were strangely agitated, moving around the army post, clutching their rifles. They eyed him nervously as he turned off his headlights and alighted from the car.\par
Approaching the building on foot, Bertram could see meager light flickering through the slats of the shutters covering Siegfried\'92s second-floor office windows. He went up the stairs, passed through the dark reception area normally occupied by Aurielo, and entered Siegfried\'92s office.\par
Siegfried was sitting at his desk with his feet propped up on the corner. In the hand of his good arm he held and was gently swirling a brandy snifter. Cameron McIvers, head of security, was sitting in a rattan chair with a similar glass. The only illumination in the room was coming from the candle in the skull. The low level of shimmering light cast dark shadows and gave a lifelike quality to the menagerie of stuffed animals.\par
\'93Thanks for coming out at such an ungodly hour,\'94 Siegfried said with his usual German accent. \'93How about a splash of brandy?\'94\par
\'93Do I need it?\'94 Bertram asked, as he pulled a rattan chair over to the desk.\par
Siegfried laughed. \'93It can never hurt.\'94\par
Cameron got the drink from a sideboard. He was a hefty, full-bearded Scotsman with a bulbous, red nose and a strong bias toward alcohol of any sort, although scotch was understandably his favorite. He handed the snifter to Bertram and reclaimed his seat and his own drink.\par
\'93Usually when I\'92m called out in the middle of the night it is a medical emergency with an animal,\'94 Bertram said. He took a sip of the brandy and breathed in deeply. \'93Tonight I have the sense it is something else entirely.\'94\par
\'93Indeed,\'94 Siegfried said. \'93First I have to commend you. Your warning this afternoon about Kevin Marshall was well-founded and timely. I asked Cameron to have him watched by the Moroccans, and sure enough this evening he, Melanie Becket, and one of the surgical nurses drove all the way out to the landing area for Isla Francesca.\'94\par
\'93Damnation!\'94 Bertram exclaimed. \'93Did they go on the island?\'94\par
\'93No,\'94 Siegfried said. \'93They merely played with the food float. They\'92d also stopped to talk with Alphonse Kimba.\'94\par
\'93This irritates me to death!\'94 Bertram exclaimed. \'93I don\'92t like anyone going near that island, and I don\'92t like anyone talking to that pygmy.\'94\par
\'93Nor do I,\'94 Siegfried agreed.\par
\'93Where are they now?\'94 Bertram questioned.\par
\'93We let them go home,\'94 Siegfried said. \'93But not before putting the fear of God into them. I don\'92t think they will be doing it again, at least not for a while.\'94\par
\'93This is not what I need!\'94 Bertram complained. \'93I hate to have to worry about this on top of the bonobos splitting into two groups.\'94\par
\'93This is worse than the animals living in two groups,\'94 Siegfried said.\par
\'93They\'92re both bad,\'94 Bertram said. \'93Both have the potential of interrupting the smooth operation of the program and possibly putting an end to it. I think my idea of caging them all and bringing them into the animal center should be reconsidered. I\'92ve got the cages out there. It wouldn\'92t be difficult, and it will make retrievals a hell of a lot easier.\'94\par
From the moment Bertram had determined the bonobos were living in two social groups, he\'92d thought it best to round up the animals and keep them in separate cages where they could be watched. But he\'92d been thwarted by Siegfried. Bertram had considered going over Siegfried\'92s head by appealing to his boss in Cambridge, Massachusetts, but had decided against it. Doing so would have alerted the GenSys hierarchy that there was potential trouble with the bonobo program.\par
\'93We\'92re not opening that discussion!\'94 Siegfried said emphatically. \'93We\'92re not giving up on the idea of keeping them isolated on the island. We all decided back when this started that was the best idea. I still think it is. But with this episode with Kevin Marshall, the bridge has me worried.\'94\par
\'93Why?\'94 Bertram asked. \'93It\'92s locked.\'94\par
\'93Where are the keys?\'94 Siegfried asked.\par
\'93In my office,\'94 Bertram said.\par
\'93I think they should be here in the main safe,\'94 Siegfried said. \'93Most of your staff has access to your office, including Melanie Becket.\'94\par
\'93Perhaps you have a point,\'94 Bertram said.\par
\'93I\'92m glad you agree,\'94 Siegfried said. \'93So I\'92d like you to get them. How many are there?\'94\par
\'93I don\'92t recall exactly,\'94 Bertram said. \'93Four or five. Something like that.\'94\par
\'93I want them here,\'94 Siegfried said.\par
\'93Fine,\'94 Bertram said agreeably. \'93I don\'92t have a problem with that.\'94\par
\'93Good,\'94 Siegfried said. He let his legs drop from the desk and stood up. \'93Let\'92s go. I\'92ll come with you.\'94\par
\'93You want to go now?\'94 Bertram asked with disbelief.\par
\'93Why put off until tomorrow what you can do today?\'94 Siegfried said. \'93Isn\'92t that an expression you Americans espouse? With the keys in the safe, I know I\'92ll sleep a lot better tonight.\'94\par
\'93Would you want me to come along as well?\'94 Cameron asked.\par
\'93It\'92s not necessary,\'94 Siegfried said. \'93I\'92m sure Bertram and I can handle it.\'94\par
\par
\pard\qj Kevin looked at himself in the full-length mirror at the end of the banks of lockers in the men\'92s room. The trouble with the coveralls was that the small was too small and the medium was a little too big. He had to roll up the sleeves and the pant legs.\par
\pard\fi283\qj\'93What the hell are you doing in there?\'94 Melanie\'92s voice called out. She\'92d pushed open the door from the hall.\par
\'93I\'92m coming,\'94 Kevin said. He closed the locker where he\'92d stored his own clothes and hurried out into the hall.\par
\'93I thought women were supposed to take a long time dressing,\'94 Melanie complained.\par
\'93I couldn\'92t decide which size was best,\'94 Kevin said.\par
\'93Did anybody come in while you were in there?\'94 Melanie asked.\par
\'93Not a soul,\'94 Kevin said.\par
\'93Good,\'94 Melanie said. \'93Same for us in the ladies\'92 room. Let\'92s go!\'94\par
Melanie motioned for the others to follow her as she started up the stairs. \'93To get to the administration area from here, we have to pass through part of the veterinary hospital. I think it\'92s best to avoid the main floor, which has the emergency room and the acute-care unit. There\'92s always a lot of activity there. So let\'92s go up to the second floor and go through the fertility unit. I can even say I\'92m checking on patients if someone asks.\'94\par
\'93Cool,\'94 Candace said.\par
They passed the first floor and climbed to the second. Entering the main corridor, they encountered their first animal-center employee. If the man thought that there was anything abnormal about Kevin and Candace\'92s presence in the middle of the night, he didn\'92t give any evidence. He passed by with merely a nod.\par
\'93That was easy,\'94 Candace whispered.\par
\'93It\'92s the coveralls,\'94 Melanie said.\par
They turned left through a set of double doors and entered a brightly lit, narrow hallway lined with a number of blank doors. Melanie cracked one of them and stuck her head inside. Quietly, she closed the door. \'93It\'92s one of my patients. She\'92s a low-land gorilla who\'92s almost ready for egg retrieval. They can get a little rambunctious with the hormone level we have to achieve, but she\'92s sleeping soundly.\'94\par
\'93Can I see?\'94 Candace asked.\par
\'93I suppose,\'94 Melanie said. \'93But be quiet and don\'92t make any sudden movements.\'94\par
Candace nodded. Melanie opened the door and slipped inside. Candace followed. Kevin stayed by the door, holding it open.\par
\'93Shouldn\'92t we be doing what we came here for?\'94 Kevin whispered.\par
Melanie put her finger to her lips.\par
There were four large cages in the room, only one of which was occupied. A large gorilla was sleeping on a bed of straw. The illumination came from overhead recessed lighting that was dimmed down to a point of being almost off.\par
Gently touching the bars of the cage, Candace leaned forward to get a better look. She\'92d never been so close to a gorilla. If she\'92d been inclined, she could have touched the huge animal.\par
With speed that defied belief, the female gorilla awoke and then bounced off the front of the cage. In the next instant, she was pounding the floor with her fists like kettle drums and shrieking.\par
Candace let out a scream of her own as she leapt back out of harm\'92s way. Melanie grabbed her.\par
\'93It\'92s okay,\'94 Melanie said.\par
The gorilla then made another lunge for the front of the cage. She also hurled a handful of fresh feces in the process, which splattered against the far wall.\par
Melanie directed Candace out the door and Kevin let it shut.\par
\'93I\'92m terribly sorry,\'94 Melanie said to Candace. Candace\'92s Nordic complexion was even paler than usual. \'93Are you all right?\'94\par
\'93I guess,\'94 Candace said. She checked the front of her coveralls.\par
\'93A little PMS, I\'92m afraid,\'94 Melanie said. \'93She didn\'92t hit you with any of her poop, did she?\'94\par
\'93I don\'92t think so,\'94 Candace said. She ran a hand through her hair and then examined it.\par
\'93Let\'92s get the keys,\'94 Kevin said. \'93We\'92re pushing our luck.\'94\par
They walked the length of the fertility unit and pushed through a second pair of swinging doors to enter a large room divided into bays. Each bay had several cages, and most of the cages were occupied by youthful primates of different species.\par
\'93This is the pediatric unit,\'94 Melanie whispered. \'93Just act natural.\'94\par
There were four people working in the unit. They were all dressed in surgical scrubs with stethoscopes draped around their necks. Everyone was friendly but busy and preoccupied, and the trio passed through, garnering nothing more than a couple of smiles and nods.\par
After another set of double doors and a short corridor, they came to a heavy, locked fire door. Melanie had to use her card to open it.\par
\'93Here we are!\'94 Melanie whispered, as she let the fire door close quietly behind them. After the bustle they\'92d just witnessed, the silence and darkness seemed absolute. \'93This is the administration area. The stairwell is down the hall to the left. So hold on.\'94\par
There was groping in the dark until Candace got her hand on Melanie\'92s shoulder and Kevin got his on Candace\'92s.\par
\'93Come on!\'94 Melanie encouraged. She began to inch her way along the corridor, while running her hand against the wall. The others allowed themselves to be pulled along. Gradually, their eyes adjusted and by the time the group neared the door to the stairwell, they could appreciate the small amount of moonlight that seeped through the cracks.\par
Inside the stairwell, it was comparatively bright. Large windows on each landing flooded the stairs with moonlight.\par
The first-floor hall was much easier to walk in than the second-floor hall because of the windows in the main-entrance doors.\par
Melanie led them to a position just outside Bertram\'92s office.\par
\'93Now comes the acid test,\'94 Kevin said, as Melanie tried her card in the lock.\par
There was an immediate, reassuring click. The door opened.\par
\'93No problem,\'94 Melanie said buoyantly.\par
The three stepped inside the room and were again thrust into almost complete darkness. The only light was a meager glow that filtered through the open door into the inner office.\par
\'93What now?\'94 Kevin questioned. \'93We\'92re not going to find anything in the dark.\'94\par
\'93I agree,\'94 Melanie said. She felt along the wall for the switch. As soon as her finger touched it, she switched it on.\par
For a moment, they blinked at each other. \'93Whoa, seems awfully bright,\'94 Melanie said.\par
\'93I hope it doesn\'92t wake up those Moroccan guards across the street,\'94 Kevin said.\par
\'93Don\'92t even joke about it,\'94 Melanie said. She walked into the inner office and turned on the light. Kevin and Candace joined her.\par
\'93I think we should be methodical about this,\'94 Melanie said. \'93I\'92ll take the desk. Candace, you take the file cabinet, and, Kevin, why don\'92t you take the outer office and, while you\'92re at it, keep an eye on the hall. Give a yell if anybody appears.\'94\par
\'93Now that\'92s a happy thought,\'94 Kevin said.\par
\par
\pard\qj Siegfried turned left at the motor pool and accelerated his new Toyota LandCruiser toward the animal center. The vehicle had been modified for his disability so that he could shift with his left hand.\par
\pard\fi283\qj\'93Does Cameron have any idea why we are so concerned about the security of Isla Francesca?\'94 Bertram asked.\par
\'93No, not at all,\'94 Siegfried said.\par
\'93Has he asked?\'94\par
\'93No, he\'92s not that kind of person. He takes orders. He doesn\'92t question them.\'94\par
\'93What about telling him and cutting him in on a small percentage?\'94 Bertram suggested. \'93He could be very helpful.\'94\par
\'93I\'92m not diluting our percentages!\'94 Siegfried said. \'93Don\'92t even suggest it. Besides, Cameron is already helpful. He does whatever I tell him to do.\'94\par
\'93What worries me the most about this episode with Kevin Marshall is that he must have said something to those women,\'94 Bertram said. \'93The last thing I want is for them to start thinking the bonobos on the island are using fire. If that gets out, it\'92s just a matter of time before we have animal-rights zealots coming out of the woodwork. GenSys will shut the program down faster than you can blink your eye.\'94\par
\'93What do you think we should do?\'94 Siegfried asked. \'93I could arrange to have the three of them just disappear.\'94\par
Bertram glanced at Siegfried and shivered. He knew the man was not joking.\par
\'93No, that could be worse,\'94 Bertram said. He looked back out through the windshield. \'93That might stimulate a major State-side investigation. I\'92m telling you, I think we should dart the bonobos, put them in the cages I brought out there, and bring them in. Sure as hell, they won\'92t be using fire in the animal center.\'94\par
\'93No, goddamn it!\'94 Siegfried snapped. \'93The animals stay on the island. If they\'92re brought in, you won\'92t be able to keep it a secret. Even if they don\'92t use fire, we know they\'92re cunning little bastards from the problems we\'92ve had during retrievals, and maybe they\'92ll start doing something else equally as weird. If they do, handlers will start talking. We\'92ll be in worse shape.\'94\par
Bertram sighed and ran a nervous hand through his white hair. Reluctantly, he admitted to himself that Siegfried had a point. Still, he thought it best to bring the animals in, mainly to keep them isolated from each other.\par
\'93I\'92ll be talking to Raymond Lyons tomorrow,\'94 Siegfried said. \'93I tried to call him earlier. I figured that since Kevin Marshall had already talked to him, we might as well get his opinion about what to do. After all, this whole operation is his creation. He doesn\'92t want trouble any more than we do.\'94\par
\'93True,\'94 Bertram said.\par
\'93Tell me something,\'94 Siegfried said. \'93If the animals are using fire, how do you think they got it? You still think it was lightning?\'94\par
\'93I\'92m not sure,\'94 Bertram said. \'93It could have been lightning. But, then again, they managed to steal a bunch of tools, rope, and other stuff when we had the crew out there constructing the island side of the bridge mechanism. No one even thought about the possibility of theft. I mean, everything was secured in toolboxes. Anyway, they might have gotten matches. Of course, I have no idea how they could have figured out how to use them.\'94\par
\'93You just gave me an idea,\'94 Siegfried said. \'93Why don\'92t we tell Kevin and the women there\'92s been a crew going out to the island over the past week to do some kind of work like cutting trails. We can say that we\'92ve just found out that they have been starting the fires.\'94\par
\'93Now that\'92s a damn good idea!\'94 Bertram said. \'93It makes perfect sense. We\'92ve even considered putting a bridge over the Rio Diviso.\'94\par
\'93Why the hell didn\'92t we think of it earlier?\'94 Siegfried questioned. \'93It\'92s so obvious.\'94\par
Ahead the LandCruiser\'92s headlights illuminated the first of the animal-center\'92s buildings.\par
\'93Where do you want me to park?\'94 Siegfried asked.\par
\'93Pull right up to the front,\'94 Bertram said. \'93You can wait in the air. It will only take me a second.\'94\par
Siegfried took his foot off the accelerator and began to brake.\par
\'93What the hell!\'94 Bertram said.\par
\'93What\'92s the matter?\'94\par
\'93There\'92s a light on in my office,\'94 Bertram answered.\par
\par
\pard\qj\'93This looks promising,\'94 Candace called out as she pulled a large folder from the top drawer of the file cabinet. The folder was dark blue and closed with an attached elastic. In the upper right-hand corner it said: \scaps Isla Francesca\scaps0 .\par
\pard\fi283\qj Melanie pushed in the drawer of the desk she\'92d been searching and walked over to Candace. Kevin appeared from the outer office and joined them.\par
Candace snapped off the elastic and opened the folder. She slid the contents out onto a library table. There were wiring diagrams of electronic equipment, computer printouts, and numerous maps. There was also a large and lumpy manila envelope that had the words \scaps Stevenson Bridge\scaps0  written across its top.\par
\'93Now we\'92re cooking,\'94 Candace said. She opened the envelope, reached in, and pulled out a ring with five identical keys.\par
\'93Voil\'e0,\'94 Melanie said. She took the ring and began to remove one of the keys.\par
Kevin peeked at the maps and picked up a detailed contour map. He had it partially unfolded when he became aware of a flickering light out of the corner of his eye. Glancing at the window, he saw the reflections of headlight beams dancing along the slats of the half open blinds. Stepping over to the window, he peeked out.\par
\'93Uh-oh!\'94 Kevin croaked. \'93It\'92s Siegfried\'92s car.\'94\par
\'93Quick!\'94 Melanie said. \'93Get this all back into the file cabinet.\'94\par
Melanie and Candace hastily crammed everything back into the folder, got the folder into the file cabinet, and closed the drawer. No sooner was it closed than they heard the rattle of the front door of the building as it was opened.\par
\'93This way!\'94 Melanie whispered frantically. She motioned toward a door behind Bertram\'92s desk. Quickly, the three went through the door. As Kevin closed it, he could hear the door to the outer office being pulled open.\par
They had entered one of Bertram\'92s examining rooms. It was constructed of white tile and had a central stainless-steel examining table. Like Bertram\'92s inner office it had windows covered with blinds. Enough light filtered in to allow them to rush over to the door to the hall. Unfortunately, en route Kevin kicked a stainless-steel pail standing on the floor next to the examining table.\par
The pail clanged up against the table leg. In the stillness, it sounded like a gong at an amusement park. Melanie reacted by throwing open the door to the hall and racing toward the stairwell. Candace followed. As Kevin dashed into the hall, he heard the door to Bertram\'92s office slam open. He had no idea if he\'92d been seen or not.\par
In the stairwell, Melanie descended as fast as the moonlight would allow. She could hear Candace and Kevin behind her. She slowed at the foot of the stairs to grope for the door to the basement level. She got it open none too soon. Above they heard the first-floor stairwell door open, followed by heavy footfalls on the metal stairs.\par
The basement was utterly black save for a dim rectangular outline of light in the distance. Holding on to each other, they made their way toward the light. It wasn\'92t until they had reached it that Kevin and Candace realized it was a fire door with light seeping around its periphery. Melanie had it open with her magnetic card once she\'92d located the slot.\par
Beyond the fire door was a brightly lit hallway which allowed them to run full tilt. Melanie pulled them to an abrupt halt halfway down the narrow passageway. There she opened a door marked \scaps pathology\scaps0 .\par
\'93Inside,\'94 Melanie barked. Wordlessly, everyone complied.\par
Closing the door, Melanie locked it with a throw bolt.\par
They were standing in an anteroom for two autopsy theaters. There were scrub sinks, several desks, and a large insulated door leading to a refrigerated room.\par
\'93Why did we come in here?\'94 Kevin said with panic in his voice. \'93We\'92re trapped.\'94\par
\'93Not quite,\'94 Melanie said breathlessly. \'93This way.\'94 She motioned for them to follow her around the corner. To Kevin\'92s surprise there was an elevator. Melanie pounded the call-button, which brought forth an immediate whine of its machinery. At the same time, the floor indicator illuminated to show the elevator cab was on the third floor.\par
\'93Come on!\'94 Melanie pleaded as if her urging could speed up the apparatus. Since it was a freight elevator, it was agonizingly slow. It was just passing the second floor when the door to the hallway rattled on its hinges followed by a muffled expletive.\par
The three exchanged panicky glances. \'93They\'92ll be in here in the next few seconds,\'94 Kevin said. \'93Is there another way out?\'94\par
Melanie shook her head. \'93Only the elevator.\'94\par
\'93We have to hide,\'94 Kevin said.\par
\'93What about the refrigerator?\'94 Candace offered.\par
With no time to argue, the three darted to the refrigerator. Kevin got the door open. A cool mist flowed out to layer itself along the floor. Candace went in first, followed by Melanie and then Kevin. Kevin pulled the door shut. It\'92s hardware clicked soundly.\par
The room was twenty feet square, with stainless-steel shelving from floor to ceiling that lined the periphery as well as forming a central island. The hulks of a number of dead primates lay on the shelves. The most impressive was the body of a huge silver-back male gorilla on the middle shelf of the central island. The illumination in the room came from bare light bulbs within wire cages attached to the ceiling at intervals along the walkways.\par
Instinctively, the three rushed around to the back of the central island and squatted down. Their heavy breathing formed fleeting spheres of mist in the frigid temperature. The smell was not pleasant with a hint of ammonia, but it was tolerable.\par
Surrounded by heavy insulation, Kevin and the others could not hear a sound inside the refrigerator, not even the whine of the elevator. At least not until they heard the unmistakable click of the refrigerator door\'92s latch.\par
Kevin felt his heart skip a beat as the door was pulled open. Preparing himself to see the sneering face of Siegfried, Kevin slowly raised his head to look over the bulk of the dead gorilla. To his surprise it wasn\'92t Siegfried. It was two men in scrub suits carrying in the body of a chimpanzee.\par
Wordlessly, the men placed the remains of the dead ape on a shelf to the right just inside the door and then left. Once the door was closed, Kevin looked down at Melanie and sighed. \'93This has to have been the worst day of my life.\'94\par
\'93It\'92s not over yet,\'94 Melanie said. \'93We still have to get out of here. But at least we got what we came for.\'94 She opened her fist and held up the key. Light glinted off its chrome-colored surface.\par
Kevin looked at his own hand. Without realizing it, he was still clutching the detailed contour map of Isla Francesca.\par
\par
\pard\qj Bertram turned on the light in the hallway as he exited the stairwell. He\'92d gone up to the second floor and had entered the pediatric unit. He\'92d asked the crew if anybody had just run through. The answer was no.\par
\pard\fi283\qj Entering his examination room, he switched on the light in there as well. Siegfried appeared at the door to Bertram\'92s office.\par
\'93Well?\'94 Siegfried questioned.\par
\'93I don\'92t know if someone was in here or not,\'94 Bertram said. He looked down at the stainless-steel pail that had moved from its normal position under the edge of the examining table.\par
\'93Did you see anyone?\'94 Siegfried asked.\par
\'93Not really,\'94 Bertram said. He shook his head. \'93Maybe the janitorial crew left the lights on.\'94\par
\'93Well, it underlines my concerns about the keys,\'94 Siegfried said.\par
Bertram nodded. He reached out with his foot and pushed the stainless-steel bucket back to its normal position. He turned out the light in the examining room before following Siegfried back into his office.\par
Bertram opened the top drawer of the file cabinet and pulled out the Isla Francesca folder. He unsnapped the securing elastic and pulled out the contents.\par
\'93What\'92s the matter?\'94 Siegfried asked.\par
Bertram had hesitated. As a compulsively neat individual he could not imagine having crammed everything into the folder so haphazardly. Fearing the worst, it was with some relief that he lifted the Stevenson Bridge envelope and felt the lump made by the ring of keys.\par
\par
\par
\pard\qj\fs32 CHAPTER 12\par
\pard\fi283\qj\fs24\par
\pard\qr MARCH 5, 1997\par
6:45 P.M.\par
NEW YORK CITY\par
\pard\fi283\qj\par
\pard\qj\'93THIS is the damndest thing,\'94 Jack said. He was peering into his microscope at one particular slide and had been doing so intently for the previous half hour. Chet had tried to talk with him but had given up. When Jack was concentrating, it was impossible to get his attention.\par
\pard\fi283\qj\'93I\'92m glad you are enjoying yourself,\'94 Chet said. He\'92d just stood up in preparation to leave and was about to heft his briefcase.\par
Jack leaned back and shook his head. \'93Everything about this case is screwy.\'94 He looked up at Chet and was surprised to see he had his coat on. \'93Oh, are you leaving? \'94\par
\'93Yeah, and I\'92ve been trying to say goodbye for the last fifteen minutes.\'94\par
\'93Take a look at this before you go,\'94 Jack said. He motioned toward his microscope as he pushed away from the desk to give Chet room.\par
Chet debated. He checked his watch. He was due at his gym for a seven o\'92clock aerobics class. He\'92d had his eye on one of the girls who was a regular. In an effort to build up the courage to approach her, he\'92d been taking the class himself. The problem was that she was in far better shape than he, so that at the end of the class he was always too winded to talk.\par
\'93Come on, sport,\'94 Jack said. \'93Give me your golden opinion.\'94\par
Chet let go of his briefcase, leaned over, and peered into the eyepieces of Jack\'92s microscope. With no explanation from Jack, he first had to figure out what the tissue was. \'93So, you\'92re still looking at this frozen section of liver,\'94 he said.\par
\'93It\'92s been entertaining me all afternoon,\'94 Jack said.\par
\'93Why not wait for the regular fixed sections?\'94 Chet said. \'93These frozen sections are so limiting.\'94\par
\'93I\'92ve asked Maureen to get them out as soon as she can,\'94 Jack said. \'93But meanwhile this is all I have. What do you think of the area under the pointer?\'94\par
Chet played with the focus. One of the many problems with frozen sections was they were often thick and the cellular architecture appeared fuzzy.\par
\'93I\'92d say it looks like a granuloma,\'94 Chet said. A granuloma was the cellular sign of chronic, cell-mediated inflammation.\par
\'93That was my thought as well,\'94 Jack said. \'93Now move the field over to the right. It will show a part of the liver surface. What do you see there?\'94\par
Chet did as he was told, while worrying that if he was late to the gym, there wouldn\'92t be a spot in the aerobics class. The instructor was one of the most popular.\par
\'93I see what looks like a large, scarred cyst,\'94 Chet said.\par
\'93Does it look at all familiar?\'94 Jack asked.\par
\'93Can\'92t say it does,\'94 Chet said. \'93In fact, I\'92d have to say it looks a little weird.\'94\par
\'93Well said,\'94 Jack remarked. \'93Now, let me ask you a question.\'94\par
Chet raised his head and looked at his office mate. Jack\'92s domed forehead was wrinkled with confusion.\par
\'93Does this look like a liver that you\'92d expect to see in a relatively recent transplant?\'94\par
\'93Hell, no!\'94 Chet said. \'93I\'92d expect some acute inflammation but certainly not a granuloma. Especially if the process could be seen grossly as suggested by the collapsed surface cyst.\'94\par
Jack sighed. \'93Thank you! I was beginning to question my judgment. It\'92s reassuring to hear you\'92ve come to the same conclusion.\'94\par
\'93Knock, knock!\'94 a voice called out.\par
Jack and Chet looked up to see Ted Lynch, the director of the DNA lab, standing in the doorway. He was a big man, almost in Calvin Washington\'92s league. He\'92d been an all-American tackle for Princeton before going on to graduate school.\par
\'93I got some results for you, Jack,\'94 Ted said. \'93But I\'92m afraid it\'92s not what you want to hear, so I thought I\'92d come down and tell you in person. I know you\'92ve been thinking you\'92ve got a liver transplant here, but the DQ alpha was a perfect match, suggesting it was the patient\'92s own liver.\'94\par
Jack threw up his hands. \'93I give up,\'94 he said.\par
\'93Now there was still a chance it was a transplant,\'94 Ted said. \'93There are twenty-one possible genotypes of the DQ alpha sequence, and the test fails to discriminate about seven percent of the time. But I went ahead and ran the ABO blood groups on chromosome nine, and it was a perfect match as well. Combining the two results, the chances are mighty slim it\'92s not the patient\'92s own liver.\'94\par
\'93I\'92m crushed,\'94 Jack said. With his fingers intertwined, he let his hands fall onto the top of his head. \'93I even called a surgeon friend of mine and asked if there would be any other reason to find sutures in the vena cava, the hepatic artery, and the biliary system. He said no: that it had to be a transplant.\'94\par
\'93What can I say?\'94 Ted commented. \'93Of course, for you I\'92d be happy to fudge the results.\'94 He laughed, and Jack pretended to take a swipe at him with his hand.\par
Jack\'92s phone jangled insistently. Jack motioned for Ted to stay, while he picked up the receiver. \'93What?\'94 he said rudely.\par
\'93I\'92m out of here,\'94 Chet said. He waved to Jack and pushed past Ted.\par
Jack listened intently. Slowly, his expression changed from exasperation to interest. He nodded a few times as he glanced up at Ted. For Ted\'92s benefit he held up a finger and mouthed, \'93One minute.\'94\par
\'93Yeah, sure,\'94 Jack said into the phone. \'93If UNOS suggests we try Europe, give it a try.\'94 He glanced at his watch. \'93Of course it\'92s the middle of the night over there, but do what you can!\'94\par
Jack hung up the phone. \'93That was Bart Arnold,\'94 he said. \'93I\'92ve had the entire forensics department searching for a missing recent liver transplant.\'94\par
\'93What\'92s UNOS?\'94 Ted asked.\par
\'93United National Organ Sharing,\'94 Jack said.\par
\'93Any luck?\'94 Ted asked.\par
\'93Nope,\'94 Jack said. \'93It\'92s baffling. Bart\'92s even checked with all the major centers doing liver transplants.\'94\par
\'93Maybe it wasn\'92t a transplant,\'94 Ted said. \'93I\'92m telling you, the probability of my two tests matching by chance is very small indeed.\'94\par
\'93I\'92m convinced it was a transplant,\'94 Jack said. \'93There\'92s no rhyme or reason to take out a person\'92s liver and then put it back.\'94\par
\'93You\'92re sure?\'94\par
\'93Of course I\'92m sure,\'94 Jack said.\par
\'93You seem committed to this case,\'94 Ted commented.\par
Jack gave a short derisive laugh. \'93I\'92ve decided that I\'92m going to unravel this mystery come hell or high water,\'94 he said. \'93If I can\'92t, I\'92ll lose respect for myself. There just aren\'92t that many liver transplants. I mean, if I can\'92t solve this one, I might as well hang it up.\'94\par
\'93All right,\'94 Ted said. \'93I\'92ll tell you what I can do. I can run a polymarker which compares areas on chromosome four, six, seven, nine, eleven, and nineteen. A chance match will be in the billions to one. And for my own peace of mind, I\'92ll even sequence the DQ alpha on both the liver sample and the patient to try to figure out how they could have matched.\'94\par
\'93I\'92ll be appreciative whatever you can do,\'94 Jack said.\par
\'93I\'92ll even go up and start tonight,\'94 Ted said. \'93That way I can have the results tomorrow.\'94\par
\'93What a sport!\'94 Jack said. He put out his hand and Ted slapped it.\par
After Ted left, Jack switched off the light under his microscope. He felt as if the slide had been mocking him with its puzzling details. He\'92d been looking at it for so long his eyes hurt.\par
For a few minutes, Jack sat at his desk and gazed at the clutter of unfinished cases. Folders were stacked in uneven piles. Even his own conservative estimate had the figure somewhere between twenty-five and thirty. That was more than usual. Paperwork had never been Jack\'92s forte, and it got worse when he became enmeshed in a particular case.\par
Cursing under his breath from frustration at his own ineptitude, Jack pushed back from his desk and grabbed his bomber jacket from the hook on the back of his office door. He\'92d had as much sitting and thinking as he was capable of. He needed some mindless, hard exercise, and his neighborhood basketball court was beckoning.\par
\par
\pard\qj The view of the New York City skyline from the George Washington Bridge was breathtaking. Franco Ponti tried to turn his head to appreciate it, but it was difficult because of the rush-hour traffic. Franco was behind the wheel of a stolen Ford sedan on the way to Englewood, New Jersey. Angelo Facciolo was sitting in the front passenger seat, staring out the windshield. Both men were wearing gloves.\par
\pard\fi283\qj\'93Get a load of the view to the left,\'94 Franco said. \'93Look at all those lights. You can see the whole freakin\'92 island, even the Statue of Liberty.\'94\par
\'93Yeah, I\'92ve seen it already,\'94 Angelo said moodily.\par
\'93What\'92s the matter with you?\'94 Franco asked. \'93You\'92re acting like you\'92re on the rag.\'94\par
\'93I don\'92t like this kind of job,\'94 Angelo said. \'93It reminds me of when Cerino went berserk and sent me and Tony Ruggerio all over the goddamn city doing the same kind of shit. We should stick to our usual work, dealing with the usual people.\'94\par
\'93Vinnie Dominick is not Pauli Cerino,\'94 Franco said. \'93And what\'92s so bad about picking up some easy extra cash?\'94\par
\'93The cash is fine,\'94 Angelo agreed. \'93It\'92s the risk I don\'92t like.\'94\par
\'93What do you mean?\'94 Franco questioned. \'93There\'92s no risk. We\'92re professionals. We don\'92t take risks.\'94\par
\'93There\'92s always the unexpected,\'94 Angelo said. \'93And as far as I\'92m concerned, the unexpected has already occurred.\'94\par
Franco glanced over at Angelo\'92s scarred face silhouetted in the half light of the car\'92s interior. He could tell that Angelo was dead serious. \'93What are you talking about?\'94 he questioned.\par
\'93The fact that this Laurie Montgomery is involved,\'94 Angelo said. \'93She gives me nightmares. Tony and I tried to whack her, but we couldn\'92t. It was like God was protecting her.\'94\par
Franco laughed in spite of Angelo\'92s seriousness. \'93This Laurie Montgomery would be flattered that someone with your reputation has nightmares about her. That\'92s hilarious.\'94\par
\'93I don\'92t find it funny at all,\'94 Angelo said.\par
\'93Don\'92t get sore at me,\'94 Franco said. \'93Besides, she\'92s hardly involved in what we\'92re doing here.\'94\par
\'93It\'92s related,\'94 Angelo said. \'93And she told Vinnie Amendola that she\'92s going to make it her personal business to find out how we managed to get Franconi\'92s body out of the morgue.\'94\par
\'93But how is she going to do that?\'94 Franco said. \'93And worse comes to worse we sent Freddie Capuso and Richie Herns to do the actual dirty work. I think you\'92re jumping to conclusions here.\'94\par
\'93Oh yeah?\'94 Angelo questioned. \'93You don\'92t know this woman. She\'92s one persistent bitch.\'94\par
\'93All right!\'94 Franco said with resignation. \'93You want to be bummed out, fine by me.\'94\par
As they reached the New Jersey side of the bridge, Franco bore right onto the Palisades Interstate Parkway. With Angelo insisting on sulking, he reached over and turned on the radio. After pushing a few buttons he found a station that played \'93oldies but goodies.\'94 Turning up the volume up he sang \'93Sweet Caroline\'94 along with Neil Diamond.\par
By the second refrain, Angelo leaned forward and turned off the radio. \'93You win,\'94 he said. \'93I\'92ll cheer up if you promise not to sing.\'94\par
\'93You don\'92t like that song?\'94 Franco questioned as if he were hurt. \'93It\'92s got such sweet memories for me.\'94 He smacked his lips as if he were tasting. \'93It reminds me of making out with Maria Provolone.\'94\par
\'93I\'92m not going to touch that one,\'94 Angelo said, laughing despite himself. He appreciated working with Franco Ponti. Franco was a professional. He also had a sense of humor, which Angelo knew he himself lacked.\par
Franco exited the parkway onto Palisades Avenue, passed Route 9W, and headed west down a long hill into Englewood, New Jersey. The environment quickly changed from franchise fast-food restaurants and service stations to upper-class suburban.\par
\'93You got the map and the address handy?\'94 Franco asked.\par
\'93I got it right here,\'94 Angelo said. He reached up and turned on the map light. \'93We\'92re looking for Overlook Place,\'94 he said. \'93It will be on the left.\'94\par
Overlook Place was easy to find, and five minutes later, they were cruising along a winding, tree-lined street. The lawns that stretched up to the widely spaced houses were so expansive they looked like fairways on a golf course.\par
\'93Can you imagine living in a place like this?\'94 Franco commented, his head swinging from side to side. \'93Hell, I\'92d get lost trying to find the street from my front door.\'94\par
\'93I don\'92t like this,\'94 Angelo said. \'93It\'92s too peaceful. We\'92re going to stick out like a sore thumb.\'94\par
\'93Now don\'92t get yourself all bent out of shape,\'94 Franco said. \'93At this point, all we\'92re doing is reconnoitering. What number are we looking for?\'94\par
Angelo consulted the piece of paper in his hand. \'93Number Eight Overlook Place.\'94\par
\'93That means it\'92s going to be on our left,\'94 Franco said. They were just passing number twelve.\par
A few moments later Franco slowed and pulled over to the right side of the road. He and Angelo stared up a serpentine driveway lined with carriage lamps to a massive Tudor-style house set against a backdrop of soaring pine trees. Most of the multipaned windows were aglow with light. The property was the size of a football field.\par
\'93Looks like a goddamn castle,\'94 Angelo complained.\par
\'93I must say, it\'92s not what I was hoping for,\'94 Franco said.\par
\'93Well, what are we going to do?\'94 Angelo asked. \'93We can\'92t just sit here. We haven\'92t seen a car since we pulled off the main drag back there.\'94\par
Franco put the car in gear. He knew Angelo was right. They couldn\'92t wait there. Someone would undoubtedly spot them, become suspicious, and call the police. They\'92d already passed one of those stupid \scaps neighborhood watch\scaps0  signs with the silhouette of a guy wearing a bandana.\par
\'93Let\'92s find out more about this sixteen-year-old chick,\'94 Angelo said. \'93Like, where she goes to school, what she likes to do, and who are her friends. We can\'92t risk going up to the house. No way.\'94\par
Franco grunted in agreement. Just as he was about to press on the accelerator, he saw a tiny figure come out the front of the house. From such a distance he couldn\'92t tell if it was male or female. \'93Somebody just came out,\'94 he said.\par
\'93I noticed,\'94 Angelo said.\par
The two men watched in silence as the figure descended a few stone stairs and then started down the driveway.\par
\'93Whoever it is, is kind of fat,\'94 Franco said.\par
\'93And they got a dog,\'94 Angelo said.\par
\'93Holy Madonna,\'94 Franco said after a few moments. \'93It\'92s the girl.\'94\par
\'93I don\'92t believe this,\'94 Angelo said. \'93Do you think it really is Cindy Carlson? I\'92m not used to things happening this easy.\'94\par
Astounded, the two men watched as the girl continued down the driveway as if she were coming directly to greet them. Ahead of her walked a tiny, caramel-colored toy poodle with its little pompom tail sticking straight up.\par
\'93What should we do?\'94 Franco questioned. He didn\'92t expect an answer; he was thinking out loud.\par
\'93How about the police act?\'94 Angelo suggested. \'93It always worked for Tony and me.\'94\par
\'93Sounds good,\'94 Franco said. He turned to Angelo and stuck out his hand. \'93Let me use your Ozone Park police badge.\'94\par
Angelo reached into the vest pocket of his Brioni suit and handed over the walletlike badge cover.\par
\'93You stay put for the moment,\'94 Franco said. \'93No reason to scare her right off the bat with that face of yours.\'94\par
\'93Thanks for the compliment,\'94 Angelo said sourly. Angelo cared about his appearance and dressed to the nines in a vain attempt to compensate for his face, which was severely scarred from a combination of chicken pox as a child, severe acne as a teenager, and third-degree burns from an explosion five years previously. Ironically, the explosion had been ignited thanks to Laurie Montgomery.\par
\'93Ah, don\'92t be so touchy,\'94 Franco teased. He cuffed Angelo on the back of the head. \'93You know we love you, even though you look like you should be in a horror movie.\'94\par
Angelo fended off Franco\'92s hand. There were only two people he allowed even to make reference to his facial problem: Franco and his boss, Vinnie Dominick. Still, he didn\'92t appreciate it.\par
The girl was now nearing the street. She was dressed in a pink down-filled ski parka, which only made her look heavier. Her facial features indented a puffy face with mild acne. Her hair was straight and parted down the middle.\par
\'93She look anything like Maria Provolone?\'94 Angelo questioned, to get in a dig at Franco.\par
\'93Very funny,\'94 Franco said. He reached for the door handle and got out of the car.\par
\'93Excuse me!\'94 Franco called out as sweetly as possible. Having smoked heavily from age eight, he had a voice that normally had a harsh, raspy quality. \'93Could you, by any chance, be the popular Cindy Carlson?\'94\par
\'93Maybe,\'94 the teenager said. \'93Who wants to know?\'94 She\'92d stopped at the foot of the driveway. The dog lifted his leg against the gate post.\par
\'93We\'92re police officers,\'94 Franco said. He held up the badge so that the light from the streetlamp glinted off its polished surface. \'93We\'92re investigating several of the boys in town and we were told you might be able to help us.\'94\par
\'93Really?\'94 Cindy questioned.\par
\'93Absolutely,\'94 Franco said. \'93Please come over here so my colleague can talk to you.\'94\par
Cindy glanced up and down the street, even though not a car had passed in the last five minutes. She crossed the street, pulling her dog who\'92d been intently sniffing the base of an elm tree.\par
Franco moved out of the way so that Cindy Carlson could bend over to look into the front seat of the car at Angelo. Before a word was spoken, Franco pushed her into the car headfirst.\par
Cindy let out a squeal but it was quickly smothered by Angelo who wrestled her into the car.\par
Franco swiftly yanked the leash out of Cindy\'92s hand and shooed the dog away. Then he squeezed into the front seat, crushing Cindy against Angelo. He put the car in gear and drove away.\par
\par
\pard\qj Laurie had surprised herself. After the delivery of the Franconi videotape, she\'92d been able to redirect her attention to her paperwork. She\'92d worked efficiently and made significant progress. There was now a gratifying stack of completed folders on the corner of her desk.\par
\pard\fi283\qj Taking the remaining tray of histology slides, she started on the final case, which could be completed with the material and reports she had. As she peered into her microscope to examine the first slide, she heard a knock on her open door. It was Lou Soldano.\par
\'93What are you doing here so late?\'94 Lou asked. He sat down heavily in the chair next to Laurie\'92s desk. He made no effort to take off his coat or hat, which was tipped way back on his head.\par
Laurie glanced at her watch. \'93My gosh!\'94 she remarked. \'93I had no idea of the time.\'94\par
\'93I tried to call you at home as I was coming across the Queensborough Bridge,\'94 Lou said. \'93When I didn\'92t get you, I decided to stop here. I had a sneaking suspicion you\'92d still be at it. You know, you work too hard!\'94\par
\'93You should talk!\'94 Laurie said with playful sarcasm. \'93Look at you! When was the last time you got any sleep? And I\'92m not talking about a catnap at your desk.\'94\par
\'93Let\'92s talk about more pleasant things,\'94 Lou suggested. \'93How about grabbing a bite to eat? I\'92ve got to run down to headquarters to do about an hour\'92s worth of dictating, then I\'92d love to go out someplace. The kids are with their aunt, God love her. What do you say to some pasta?\'94\par
\'93Are you sure you\'92re up for going out?\'94 Laurie questioned. The circles under Lou\'92s dark eyes were touching his smile creases. His stubble was more than a five o\'92clock shadow. Laurie guessed it was at least two days\'92 worth.\par
\'93I gotta eat,\'94 Lou said. \'93Are you planning on working much longer?\'94\par
\'93I\'92m on my last case,\'94 Laurie said. \'93Maybe another half hour.\'94\par
\'93You gotta eat, too,\'94 Lou said.\par
\'93Have you made any progress in the Franconi case?\'94 Laurie asked.\par
Lou let out an exasperated puff of air. \'93I wish,\'94 he said. \'93And the trouble is with these mob hits, if you don\'92t score quickly, the trail cools mighty fast. We haven\'92t gotten the break I\'92ve been hoping for.\'94\par
\'93I\'92m sorry,\'94 Laurie said.\par
\'93Thanks,\'94 Lou said. \'93How about you? Any more of an idea how Franconi\'92s body got out of here?\'94\par
\'93That trail is about equally as cool,\'94 Laurie said. \'93Calvin even gave me a reaming out for interrogating the night mortuary tech. All I did was talk to the man. I\'92m afraid administration just wants the episode to fade.\'94\par
\'93So Jack was right about telling you to lay off,\'94 Lou said.\par
\'93I suppose,\'94 Laurie reluctantly agreed. \'93But don\'92t tell him that.\'94\par
\'93I wish the commissioner would let it fade,\'94 Lou said. \'93Hell, I might get demoted over this thing.\'94\par
\'93I did have one thought,\'94 Laurie said. \'93One of the funeral homes that picked up a body the night Franconi disappeared is called Spoletto. It\'92s in Ozone Park. Somehow the name was familiar to me. Then I remembered that one of the more grisly murders of a young mobster took place there back during the Cerino case. Do you think that it\'92s just a coincidence they happened to be making a pickup here the night Franconi disappeared?\'94\par
\'93Yeah,\'94 Lou said. \'93And I\'92ll tell you why. I\'92m familiar with that funeral home from my years in Queens fighting organized crime. There is a loose and innocent connection by marriage with the Spoletto Funeral Home and the New York crime establishment. But it\'92s with the wrong family. It\'92s with the Lucia people, not with the Vaccarros who killed Franconi.\'94\par
\'93Oh, well,\'94 Laurie said. \'93It was just a thought.\'94\par
\'93Hey, I\'92m not knocking your questioning it,\'94 Lou said. \'93Your recall always impresses me. I\'92m not sure I would have made the association. Anyway, what about some dinner?\'94\par
\'93As tired as you look, how about just coming over to my apartment for some spaghetti?\'94 Laurie suggested. Lou and Laurie had become best of friends over the years. After being thrust together on the Cerino case five years previously, they\'92d flirted with a romantic relationship. But it hadn\'92t worked out. Becoming friends had been a mutual decision. In the years since, they made it a point to have dinner together every couple of weeks.\par
\'93You wouldn\'92t mind?\'94 Lou asked. The idea of kicking back on Laurie\'92s couch sounded like heaven.\par
\'93Not at all,\'94 Laurie said. \'93In fact, I\'92d prefer it. I\'92ve got some sauce in the freezer and plenty of salad makings.\'94\par
\'93Great!\'94 Lou said. \'93I\'92ll grab some Chianti on my way downtown. I\'92ll give you a call when I\'92m leaving headquarters.\'94\par
\'93Perfect,\'94 Laurie said.\par
After Lou had left, Laurie went back to her slide. But Lou\'92s visit had broken her concentration by reawakening the Franconi business. Besides, she was tired of looking through the microscope. Leaning back, she rubbed her eyes.\par
\'93Damn it all!\'94 she murmured. She sighed and gazed up a at the cob-webbed ceiling. Every time she questioned how Franconi\'92s body could have gotten out of the morgue, she agonized anew. She also felt guilty that she couldn\'92t provide even a modicum of help to Lou.\par
Laurie got up and got her coat, snapped shut her briefcase, and walked out of her office. But she didn\'92t leave the morgue. Instead, she went down for another visit to the mortuary office. There was a question that was nagging her and which she\'92d forgotten to ask Marvin Fletcher, the evening mortuary tech, the previous late afternoon.\par
She found Marvin at his desk busily filling out the required forms for the scheduled pickups for that evening. Marvin was one of Laurie\'92s favorite coworkers. He\'92d been on the day shift before Bruce Pomowski\'92s tragic murder during the Cerino affair. After that event, Marvin had been switched to evenings. It had been a promotion because the evening mortuary tech had a lot of responsibility.\par
\'93Hey, Laurie! What\'92s happening?\'94 Marvin said the moment he caught sight of her. Marvin was a handsome African-American, with the most flawless skin Laurie had ever seen. It seemed to glow as if lit internally.\par
Laurie chatted with Marvin for a few minutes, catching him up on the intraoffice gossip of the day before getting down to business. \'93Marvin, I\'92ve got to ask you something, but I don\'92t want you to feel defensive.\'94 Laurie couldn\'92t help remembering Mike Passano\'92s reaction to her questioning, and she certainly didn\'92t want Marvin complaining to Calvin.\par
\'93About what?\'94 Marvin asked.\par
\'93Franconi,\'94 Laurie said. \'93I wanted to ask why you didn\'92t X-ray the body.\'94\par
\'93What are you talking about?\'94 Marvin questioned.\par
\'93Just what I said,\'94 Laurie remarked. \'93There was no X-ray slip in the autopsy folder and there were no films down here with others when I looked prior to finding out that the body had disappeared.\'94\par
\'93I took X rays,\'94 Marvin said. He acted hurt that Laurie would suggest that he hadn\'92t. \'93I always take X rays when a body comes in unless one of the doctors tells me otherwise.\'94\par
\'93Then where\'92s the slip and where are the films?\'94 Laurie asked.\par
\'93Hey, I don\'92t know what happened to the slip,\'94 Marvin said. \'93But the films: They went with Doctor Bingham.\'94\par
\'93Bingham took them?\'94 Laurie questioned. Even that was odd, yet she recognized that Bingham probably was planning on doing the post the following morning.\par
\'93He told me he was taking them up to his office,\'94 Marvin said. \'93What am I supposed to do, tell the boss he can\'92t take the X rays. No way! Not this dude.\'94\par
\'93Right, of course,\'94 Laurie said vaguely. She was preoccupied. Here was a new surprise. X rays existed of Franconi\'92s body! Of course, it didn\'92t matter much without the body itself, but she wondered why she\'92d not been told. Then again she\'92d not seen Bingham until after it was known that Franconi\'92s body had been stolen.\par
\'93Well, I\'92m glad I spoke to you,\'94 Laurie said, coming out of her musing. \'93And I apologize for suggesting that you\'92d forgotten to take the films.\'94\par
\'93Hey, it\'92s cool,\'94 Marvin said.\par
Laurie was about to leave when she thought about the Spoletto Funeral Home. On a whim, she asked Marvin about it.\par
Marvin shrugged. \'93What do you want to know?\'94 he asked. \'93I don\'92t know much. I\'92ve never been there, you know what I\'92m saying.\'94\par
\'93What are the people like who come here from the home?\'94 Laurie asked.\par
\'93Normal,\'94 Marvin said with another shrug. \'93I\'92ve probably only seen them a couple of times. I mean, I don\'92t know what you want me to say.\'94\par
Laurie nodded. \'93It was a silly question. I don\'92t know why I asked.\'94\par
Laurie left the mortuary office and exited the morgue through the loading area onto Thirtieth Street. It seemed to her that nothing about the Franconi case was routine.\par
As Laurie commenced walking south along First Avenue another whim hit her. Suddenly, the idea of visiting the Spoletto Funeral Home seemed very appealing. She hesitated for a second while considering the idea and then stepped out into the street to hail a cab.\par
\'93Where to, lady?\'94 the driver asked. Laurie could see from his hackney license that his name was Michael Neuman.\par
\'93Do you know where Ozone Park is?\'94 Laurie asked.\par
\'93Sure, it\'92s over in Queens,\'94 Michael said. He was an older man who, Laurie guessed, was in his late sixties. He was sitting on a foam rubber-stuffed pillow with a lot of foam rubber visible. His backrest was constructed of wooden beads.\par
\'93How long would it take to get there?\'94 Laurie asked. If it was going to take hours, she wouldn\'92t do it.\par
Michael made a questioning expression by compressing his lips while thinking. \'93Not long,\'94 he said vaguely. \'93Traffic\'92s light. In fact, I was just out at Kennedy Airport, and it was a breeze.\'94\par
\'93Let\'92s go,\'94 Laurie said.\par
As Michael promised, the trip took only a short time, especially once they got on the Van Wyck Expressway. While they were traveling, Laurie found out that Michael had been driving a cab for over thirty years. He was a loquacious and opinionated man who also exuded a paternal charm.\par
\'93Would you know where Gold Road is in Ozone Park?\'94 Laurie asked. She felt privileged to have found an experienced taxi driver. She\'92d remembered the address of the Spoletto Funeral Home from the Rolodex in the mortuary office. The street name had stuck in her mind as making a metaphorical statement about the undertaking business.\par
\'93Gold Road,\'94 Michael said. \'93No problem. It\'92s a continuation of Eighty-ninth Street. You looking for a house or what?\'94\par
\'93I\'92m looking for the Spoletto Funeral Home,\'94 Laurie said.\par
\'93I\'92ll have you there in no time,\'94 Michael said.\par
Laurie sat back with a contented feeling, only half listening to Michael\'92s nonstop chatter. For the moment luck seemed to be on her side. The reason she\'92d decided to visit the Spoletto Funeral Home was because Jack had been wrong about it. The home did have a mob connection, and even though it was with the wrong family according to Lou, the fact that it was associated at all was suspicious to Laurie.\par
True to his promise, within a surprisingly short time Michael pulled up to a three-storied white clapboard house wedged between several brick tenements. It had Greek-style columns holding up the roof of a wide front porch. A glazed, internally lit sign in the middle of a postage stamp-sized lawn read: \'93Spoletto Funeral Home, a family business, two generations of caring.\'94\par
The establishment was in full operation. Lights were on in all the windows. A few cigarette smokers were on the porch. Other people were visible through the ground-floor windows.\par
Michael was about to terminate the meter when Laurie spoke up: \'93Would you mind waiting for me?\'94 she asked. \'93I\'92m certain I\'92ll only be a few minutes, and I imagine it would be hard catching a cab from here.\'94\par
\'93Sure, Lady,\'94 Michael said. \'93No problem.\'94\par
\'93Would you mind if I left my briefcase?\'94 Laurie asked. \'93There\'92s absolutely nothing of value in it.\'94\par
\'93It will be safe just the same,\'94 Michael said.\par
Laurie got out and started up the front walk, feeling unnerved. She could remember as if it were yesterday the case Dr. Dick Katzenburg had presented at the Thursday afternoon conference five years earlier. A man in his twenties had been essentially embalmed alive in the Spoletto Funeral Home after having been involved in throwing battery acid in Pauli Cerino\'92s face.\par
Laurie shuddered but forced herself up the front steps. She was never going to be completely free from the Cerino affair.\par
The people smoking cigarettes ignored her. Soft organ music could be heard through the closed front door. Laurie tried the door. It was unlocked, and she walked in.\par
Save for the music there was little sound. The floors were heavily carpeted. Small groups of people were standing around the entrance hall but they conversed in hushed whispers.\par
To Laurie\'92s left was a room full of elaborate coffins and urns on display. To the right was a viewing room with people seated in folding chairs. At the far end of the room was a coffin resting on a bed of flowers.\par
\'93May I help you?\'94 a soft voice enquired.\par
A thin man about Laurie\'92s age with an ascetic face and sad features had come up to her. He was dressed in black except for his white shirt. He was obviously part of the staff. To Laurie, he looked like her image of a puritan preacher.\par
\'93Are you here to pay respects to Jonathan Dibartolo?\'94 the man asked.\par
\'93No,\'94 Laurie said. \'93Frank Gleason.\'94\par
\'93Excuse me?\'94 the man enquired.\par
Laurie repeated the name. There was a pause.\par
\'93And your name is?\'94 the man asked.\par
\'93Dr. Laurie Montgomery.\'94\par
\'93Just one moment if you will,\'94 the man said as he literally ducked away.\par
Laurie looked around at the mourners. This was a side of death that she\'92d experienced only once. It was when her brother had died from an overdose when he was nineteen and Laurie was fifteen. It had been a traumatic experience for her in all regards, but especially since she\'92d been the one who had found him.\par
\'93Dr. Montgomery,\'94 a soft, unctuous voice intoned. \'93I\'92m Anthony Spoletto. I understand you are here to pay respects to Mr. Frank Gleason.\'94\par
\'93That\'92s correct,\'94 Laurie said. She turned to face a man also dressed in a black suit. He was obese and as oily as his voice. His forehead glistened in the soft incandescent light.\par
\'93I\'92m afraid that will be impossible,\'94 Mr. Spoletto said.\par
\'93I called this afternoon and was told he was on view,\'94 Laurie said.\par
\'93Yes, of course,\'94 Mr. Spoletto said. \'93But that was this afternoon. At the family\'92s request this afternoon\'92s four \scaps p.m\scaps0 . to six \scaps p.m\scaps0 . viewing was to be the last.\'94\par
\'93I see,\'94 Laurie said nonplussed. She\'92d not had any particular plan in mind concerning her visit and had intended on viewing the body as a kind of jumping-off place. Now that the body was not available, she didn\'92t know what to do.\par
\'93Perhaps I could just sign the register book anyway,\'94 Laurie said.\par
\'93I\'92m afraid that, too, is impossible,\'94 Mr. Spoletto said. \'93The family has already taken it.\'94\par
\'93Well, I guess that\'92s it,\'94 Laurie said with a limp gesture of her arms.\par
\'93Unfortunately,\'94 returned Mr. Spoletto.\par
\'93Would you know when the burial is planned?\'94 Laurie asked.\par
\'93Not at the moment,\'94 Mr. Spoletto said.\par
\'93Thank you,\'94 Laurie said.\par
\'93Not at all,\'94 Mr. Spoletto said. He opened the door for Laurie.\par
Laurie walked out and got into the cab.\par
\'93Now where?\'94 Michael asked.\par
Laurie gave her address on Nineteenth Street and leaned forward to look out at the Spoletto Funeral Home as the taxi pulled away. It had been a wasted trip. Or had it? After she\'92d been talking with Mr. Spoletto for a moment, she\'92d realized that his forehead wasn\'92t oily. The man had been perspiring despite the temperature inside the funeral parlor being decidedly on the cool side. Laurie scratched her head, wondering if that meant anything or if it were just another example of her grabbing at straws.\par
\'93Was it a friend?\'94 Michael asked.\par
\'93Was who a friend?\'94\par
\'93The deceased,\'94 Michael said.\par
Laurie let out a little mirthless laugh. \'93Hardly,\'94 she said.\par
\'93I know what you mean,\'94 Michael said, looking at Laurie in the rearview mirror. \'93Relationships today are very complicated. And I\'92ll tell you why it is\~.\~.\~.\'94\par
Laurie smiled as she settled back to listen. She loved philosophical taxi drivers, and Michael was a regular Plato of his profession.\par
When the cab pulled up outside Laurie\'92s building, Laurie saw a familiar figure in the foyer. It was Lou Soldano slouched over against the mailboxes, clutching a bottle of wine in a straw basket. Laurie paid Michael the fare along with a generous tip, then hurried inside.\par
\'93I\'92m sorry,\'94 Laurie offered. \'93I thought you were going to call before you came over.\'94\par
Lou blinked as if he\'92d been asleep. \'93I did,\'94 he said, after a brief coughing spree. \'93I got your answering machine. So I left the message that I was on my way.\'94\par
Laurie glanced at her watch as she unlocked the inner door. She\'92d only been gone for a little over an hour, which was what she\'92d expected.\par
\'93I thought you were only going to work for another half hour,\'94 Lou said.\par
\'93I wasn\'92t working,\'94 Laurie said, as she called for the elevator. \'93I took a trip out to the Spoletto Funeral Home.\'94\par
Lou frowned.\par
\'93Now don\'92t give me extra grief,\'94 Laurie said as they boarded the elevator.\par
\'93So what did you find? Franconi lying in state?\'94 Lou asked sarcastically.\par
\'93I\'92m not going to tell you a thing if you\'92re going to act that way,\'94 Laurie complained.\par
\'93Okay, I\'92m sorry,\'94 Lou said.\par
\'93I didn\'92t find anything,\'94 Laurie admitted. \'93The body I went to see was no longer on view. The family had cut it off at six \scaps p.m\scaps0 .\'94\par
The elevator opened. While Laurie struggled with her locks, Lou curtsied for Debra Engler, whose door opened against its chain as usual.\par
\'93But the director acted a little suspicious,\'94 Laurie said. \'93At least I think he did.\'94\par
\'93How so?\'94 Lou asked as they entered Laurie\'92s apartment. Tom came running out of the bedroom to purr and rub against Laurie\'92s leg.\par
Laurie put her briefcase on the small half moon-shaped hall console table in order to bend down to scratch Tom vigorously behind his ear.\par
\'93He was perspiring while I was talking with him,\'94 Laurie said.\par
Lou paused with his coat half off. \'93Is that all?\'94 he asked. \'93The man was perspiring?\'94\par
\'93Yes, that\'92s it,\'94 Laurie said. She knew what Lou was thinking; it was written all over his face.\par
\'93Did he start perspiring after you asked him difficult and incriminating questions about Franconi\'92s body?\'94 Lou asked. \'93Or was he perspiring before you began talking with him?\'94\par
\'93Before,\'94 Laurie admitted.\par
Lou rolled his eyes. \'93Whoa! Another Sherlock Holmes incarnate,\'94 he said. \'93Maybe you should take over my job. I don\'92t have your powers of intuition and inductive reasoning!\'94\par
\'93You promised not to give me grief,\'94 Laurie said.\par
\'93I never promised,\'94 Lou said.\par
\'93All right, it was a wasted trip,\'94 Laurie said. \'93Let\'92s get some food. I\'92m starved.\'94\par
Lou switched the bottle of wine from one hand to the other, allowing him to swing his arm out of his trench coat. When he did, he clumsily knocked Laurie\'92s briefcase to the floor. The impact caused it to spring open and scatter the contents. The crash terrified the cat, who disappeared back into the bedroom after a desperate struggle to gain traction on the highly polished wood floor.\par
\'93What a klutz,\'94 Lou said. \'93I\'92m sorry!\'94 He bent down to retrieve the papers, pens, microscope slides, and other paraphernalia and bumped into Laurie in the process.\par
\'93Maybe it\'92s best you just sit down,\'94 Laurie suggested with a laugh.\par
\'93No, I insist,\'94 Lou said.\par
After they\'92d gotten most of the contents back into the briefcase, Lou picked up the videotape. \'93What\'92s this, your favorite X-rated feature?\'94\par
\'93Hardly,\'94 Laurie commented.\par
Lou turned it over to read the label. \'93The Franconi shooting?\'94 he questioned. \'93CNN sent you this out-of-the-blue?\'94\par
Laurie straightened up. \'93No, I requested it. I was going to use the tape to corroborate the findings when I did the autopsy. I thought it could make an interesting paper to show how reliable forensics can be.\'94\par
\'93Mind if I look at it?\'94 Lou asked.\par
\'93Of course not,\'94 Laurie said. \'93Didn\'92t you see it on TV?\'94\par
\'93Along with everyone else,\'94 Lou said. \'93But it would still be interesting to see the tape.\'94\par
\'93I\'92m surprised you don\'92t have a copy at police headquarters,\'94 Laurie said.\par
\'93Hey, maybe we do,\'94 Lou said. \'93I just haven\'92t seen it.\'94\par
\par
\pard\qj\'93Man, this ain\'92t your night,\'94 Warren teased Jack. \'93You must be getting too old.\'94\par
\pard\fi283\qj Jack had decided when he\'92d gotten to the playground late and had had to wait to get into the game, that he was going to win no matter whom he was teamed up with. But it didn\'92t happen. In fact, Jack lost every game he played in because Warren and Spit had gotten on the same team and neither could miss. Their team had won every game including the last, which had just been capped off with a sweet \'93give and go\'94 that gave Spit an easy final lay-up.\par
Jack walked over to the sidelines on rubbery legs. He\'92d played his heart out and was perspiring profusely. He pulled a towel from where he\'92d jammed it into the chain-link fence and wiped his face. He could feel his heart pounding in his chest.\par
\'93Come on, man!\'94 Warren teased from the edge of the court, where he was dribbling a basketball back and forth between his legs. \'93One more run. We\'92ll let you win this time.\'94\par
\'93Yeah, sure!\'94 Jack called back. \'93You never let nobody win nothing.\'94 Jack made it a point to adapt his syntax for the environment. \'93I\'92m out\'92a here.\'94\par
Warren sauntered over and hooked one of his ringers through the fence and leaned against it. \'93What\'92s up with your shortie?\'94 he asked. \'93Natalie\'92s been driving me up the wall asking questions about her since we haven\'92t seen nothing of you guys, you know what I\'92m saying?\'94\par
Jack looked at Warren\'92s sculpted face. To add insult to injury, as far as Jack was concerned, Warren wasn\'92t even perspiring, nor was he breathing particularly heavily. And to make matters worse, he\'92d been playing before Jack had arrived. The only evidence of exertion was a tiny triangle of sweat down the front of his cut-off sweatshirt.\par
\'93Reassure Natalie that Laurie\'92s fine,\'94 Jack said. \'93She and I were just taking a little vacation from each other. It was mostly my fault. I just wanted to cool things down a bit.\'94\par
\'93I hear you,\'94 Warren said.\par
\'93I was with her last night,\'94 Jack added. \'93And things are looking up. She was asking me about you and Natalie, so you weren\'92t alone.\'94\par
Warren nodded. \'93You sure you\'92re finished or do you want to run one more?\'94\par
\'93I\'92m finished,\'94 Jack said.\par
\'93Take care, man,\'94 Warren said as he pushed off the fence. Then he yelled out to the others: \'93Let\'92s run, you bad asses.\'94\par
Jack shook his head in dismay as he watched Warren amble away. He was envious of the man\'92s stamina. Warren truly wasn\'92t tired.\par
Jack pulled on his sweatshirt and started for home. He\'92d not won a single game, and although during the play the inability to win had seemed overwhelmingly frustrating, now it didn\'92t matter. The exercise had cleared his mind, and for the hour and a half he\'92d played, he hadn\'92t thought about work.\par
But Jack wasn\'92t even all the way across 106th Street when the tantalizing mystery of his floater began troubling him again. As he climbed his refuse-strewn stairs, he wondered if there was a chance that Ted had made a mistake with the DNA analysis. As far as Jack was concerned the victim had had a transplant.\par
Jack was rounding the third-floor landing when he heard the telltale sound of his phone. He knew it was his because Denise, the single mother of two who lived on his floor, didn\'92t have a phone.\par
With some effort, Jack encouraged his tired quadriceps to propel him up the final flight. Clumsily, he fumbled with his keys at his door. The moment he got it open, he heard his answering machine pick up with a voice that Jack refused to believe was his own.\par
He got to the phone and snatched it up, cutting himself off in mid-sentence.\par
\'93Hello,\'94 he gasped. After an hour and a half of full-court, all-out basketball, the dash up the final flight of stairs had put him close to collapse.\par
\'93Don\'92t tell me you\'92re just coming in from your basketball,\'94 Laurie said. \'93It\'92s going on nine o\'92clock. That\'92s way off your schedule.\'94\par
\'93I didn\'92t get home until after seven-thirty,\'94 Jack explained between breaths. He wiped his face to keep his perspiration from dripping on the floor.\par
\'93That means you haven\'92t eaten yet,\'94 Laurie said.\par
\'93You got that right,\'94 Jack said.\par
\'93Lou is over here, and we were going to have salad and spaghetti,\'94 Laurie said. \'93Why don\'92t you join us?\'94\par
\'93I wouldn\'92t want to break up the party,\'94 Jack said jokingly. At the same time he felt a mild stab of jealousy. He knew about Laurie\'92s and Lou\'92s brief romantic involvement and half wondered if the two friends were starting something up.\par
Jack knew he had no right to such feelings, considering the ambivalence he had about becoming involved with any woman. After the loss of his family, he\'92d been unsure if he ever wanted to make himself vulnerable to such pain again. At the same time, he\'92d come to admit both his loneliness and how much he enjoyed Laurie\'92s company.\par
\'93You won\'92t be breaking up any party,\'94 Laurie assured him. \'93It\'92s going to be a very, very casual dinner. But we have something we want to show you. Something that is going to surprise you and maybe even make you want to give yourself a boot in the rear end. As you can probably tell, we\'92re pretty excited.\'94\par
\'93Oh?\'94 Jack questioned. His mouth had gone dry. Hearing Lou laughing in the background, and putting two and two together, Jack knew what they wanted to show him; it had to be a ring! Lou must have proposed!\par
\'93Are you coming?\'94 Laurie asked.\par
\'93It\'92s kind of late,\'94 Jack said. \'93I\'92ve got to shower.\'94\par
\'93Hey, you old sawbones,\'94 Lou said. He\'92d snatched the phone from Laurie. \'93Get your ass over here. Laurie and I are dying to share this with you.\'94\par
\'93Okay,\'94 Jack said with resignation. \'93I\'92ll jump in the shower and be there in forty minutes.\'94\par
\'93See ya, dude,\'94 Lou said.\par
Jack hung up the phone. \'93Dude?\'94 he mumbled. That didn\'92t sound like Lou. Jack mused that the detective must be on cloud nine.\par
\par
\pard\qj\'93I wish I knew what I could do to cheer you up,\'94 Darlene said. She\'92d made the effort to put on a slinky silk teddy from Victoria\'92s Secret, but Raymond hadn\'92t even noticed.\par
\pard\fi283\qj Raymond was stretched out on the sofa with an ice pack on his head and his eyes closed.\par
\'93Are you sure you don\'92t want anything to eat?\'94 Darlene asked. She was a tall woman over five feet ten, with bleached blond hair and a curvaceous body. She was twenty-six years old, and as she and Raymond joked, halfway to his fifty-two. She\'92d been a fashion model before Raymond had met her in a cosy East Side bar called the Auction House.\par
Raymond slowly took his ice pack off and glared at Darlene. Her bubbly vivaciousness was only an irritation.\par
\'93My stomach is in a knot,\'94 he said deliberately. \'93I\'92m not hungry. Is that so difficult to understand?\'94\par
\'93Well, I don\'92t know why you are so upset,\'94 Darlene persisted. \'93You just got a call from the doctor in Los Angeles, and she\'92s decided to come on board. That means we\'92ll soon have some movie stars as clients. I think we should celebrate.\'94\par
Raymond replaced the ice pack and closed his eyes. \'93The problems haven\'92t been about the business side. That\'92s all been going like clockwork. It\'92s these unexpected snafus, like Franconi and now Kevin Marshall.\'94 Raymond was loath to explain about Cindy Carlson. In fact, he\'92d been trying to avoid even thinking about the girl himself.\par
\'93Why are you still worried about Franconi?\'94 Darlene asked. \'93That problem has been taken care of.\'94\par
\'93Listen,\'94 Raymond said, trying to be patient, \'93maybe it would be best if you go watch some TV and let me suffer in peace.\'94\par
\'93How about some toast or a little cereal?\'94 Darlene asked.\par
\'93Leave me alone!\'94 Raymond shouted. He\'92d sat up suddenly and was clutching his ice pack in his hand. His eyes were bulging and his face was flushed.\par
\'93Okay, I can tell when I\'92m not wanted,\'94 Darlene pouted. As she was leaving the room, the phone rang. She looked back at Raymond. \'93Want me to get it?\'94 she asked.\par
Raymond nodded and told her to take the call in the study. He also said that if the call was for him, she should be vague about where he was, since he wasn\'92t up to talking with anyone.\par
Darlene reversed her direction and disappeared into the study. Raymond breathed a sigh of relief and put the ice pack back on his head. Lying back, he tried to relax. He was just getting comfortable when Darlene returned.\par
\'93It\'92s the intercom, not the phone,\'94 she said. \'93There\'92s a man downstairs who wants to see you. His name is Franco Ponti, and he said it was important. I told him that I\'92d see if you were here. What do you want me to say?\'94\par
Raymond sat back up with a new jolt of anxiety. For a moment, he couldn\'92t place the name, but he didn\'92t like the sound of it. Then it hit him. It was one of Vinnie Dominick\'92s men who\'92d accompanied the mobster to the apartment the previous morning.\par
\'93Well?\'94 Darlene questioned.\par
Raymond swallowed loudly. \'93I\'92ll talk to him.\'94 Raymond reached behind the couch and picked up the telephone extension. He tried to sound authoritative when he said hello.\par
\'93Howdy, Doc,\'94 Franco said. \'93I was going to be disappointed if you hadn\'92t been at home.\'94\par
\'93I\'92m about to go to bed,\'94 Raymond said. \'93It\'92s rather late for you to be calling.\'94\par
\'93My apologies for the hour,\'94 Franco said. \'93But Angelo Facciolo and I have something we\'92d like to show you.\'94\par
\'93Why don\'92t we do this tomorrow?\'94 Raymond said. \'93Say between nine and ten.\'94\par
\'93It can\'92t wait,\'94 Franco said. \'93Come on, Doc! Don\'92t give us a hard time. It\'92s Vinnie Dominick\'92s express wish that you become intimately acquainted with our services.\'94\par
Raymond struggled to come up with an excuse to avoid going downstairs. But given his headache, nothing came to mind.\par
\'93Two minutes,\'94 Franco said. \'93That\'92s all I\'92m asking.\'94\par
\'93I\'92m awfully tired,\'94 Raymond said. \'93I\'92m afraid\~.\~.\~.\'94\par
\'93Hold on, Doc,\'94 Franco said. \'93Listen, I have to insist you come down here or you\'92re going to be very sorry. I hope I\'92m making myself clear.\'94\par
\'93All right,\'94 Raymond said, recognizing the inevitable. He was not naive enough to believe that Vinnie Dominick and his people made idle threats. \'93I\'92ll be right down.\'94\par
Raymond went to the hall closet and got his coat.\par
Darlene was amazed. \'93You\'92re going out?\'94\par
\'93It appears that I don\'92t have a lot of choice,\'94 Raymond said. \'93I suppose I should be happy they\'92re not demanding to come inside.\'94\par
As Raymond descended in the elevator, he tried to calm himself, but it was difficult since his headache had only gotten worse. This unexpected, unwanted visit was just the kind of turn that was making his life miserable. He had no idea what these people wanted to show him, although he guessed it had something to do with how they were going to deal with Cindy Carlson.\par
\'93Good evening, Doc,\'94 Franco said as Raymond appeared. \'93Sorry to trouble you.\'94\par
\'93Let\'92s just make this short,\'94 Raymond said, sounding more confident than he felt.\par
\'93It will be short and sweet, trust me,\'94 Franco said. \'93If you don\'92t mind.\'94 He pointed up the street where the Ford sedan had been pulled to the curb next to a fire hydrant. Angelo was half-sitting, half-leaning against the trunk, smoking a cigarette.\par
Raymond followed Franco to the car. Angelo responded by straightening up and stepping to the side.\par
\'93We just want you to take a quick look in the trunk,\'94 Franco said. He reached the car and keyed the luggage compartment. \'93Come right over here so you can see. The light\'92s not so good.\'94\par
Raymond stepped between the Ford and the car behind it, literally inches away from the trunk\'92s lid as Franco raised it.\par
In the next second, Raymond thought his heart had stopped. The instant he glimpsed the ghoulish sight of Cindy Carlson\'92s dead body crammed into the trunk, there was a flash of light.\par
Raymond staggered back. He felt sick with the image of the obese girl\'92s porcelain face imprinted in his brain and dizzy from the flash of light which he quickly realized was from a Polaroid camera.\par
Franco closed the trunk and wiped his hands. \'93How\'92d the picture come out?\'94 he asked Angelo.\par
\'93Gotta wait a minute,\'94 Angelo said. He was holding the edges of the photo as it was developing.\par
\'93Just a second longer,\'94 Franco said to Raymond.\par
Raymond involuntarily moaned under his breath, while his eyes scanned the immediate area. He was terrified anybody else had seen the corpse.\par
\'93Looks good,\'94 Angelo said. He handed the picture to Franco who agreed.\par
Franco reached out with the photo so Raymond could see it.\par
\'93I\'92d say that\'92s your best side,\'94 Franco said.\par
Raymond swallowed. The picture accurately depicted his shocked terror as well as the awful image of the dead girl.\par
Franco pocketed the picture. \'93There, that\'92s it, Doc,\'94 he said. \'93I told you we wouldn\'92t need a lot of your time.\'94\par
\'93Why did you do this?\'94 Raymond croaked.\par
\'93It was Vinnie\'92s idea,\'94 Franco said. \'93He thought it best to have a record of the favor he\'92d done for you just in case.\'94\par
\'93In case of what?\'94 Raymond asked.\par
Franco spread his hands. \'93In case of whatever.\'94\par
Franco and Angelo got into the car. Raymond stepped up onto the sidewalk. He watched until the Ford had gone to the corner and disappeared.\par
\'93Good Lord!\'94 Raymond murmured. He turned and headed back to his door on unsteady legs. Every time he solved one problem another emerged.\par
\par
\pard\qj The shower had revived Jack. Since Laurie had not included any injunction about riding his bike this time, Jack decided to ride. He cruised south at a good clip. Given the bad experiences he\'92d had in the park the previous year, he stayed on Central Park West all the way to Columbus Circle.\par
\pard\fi283\qj From Columbus Circle, Jack shot across Fifty-ninth Street to Park Avenue. At that time of the evening, Park Avenue was a dream, and he took it all the way to Laurie\'92s street. He secured his bike with his collection of locks and went to Laurie\'92s door. Before ringing her bell, he took a moment to compose himself, determining how best to act and what to say.\par
Laurie met him at the door, with a wide grin on her face. Before he could even say a word, she threw her free arm around his neck to give him a hug. In her other hand, she was balancing a glass of wine.\par
\'93Uh-oh,\'94 she said, stepping back. She eyed the wild state of his close-cropped hair. \'93I forgot about the bike issue. Don\'92t tell me you rode down here.\'94\par
Jack shrugged guiltily.\par
\'93Well, at least you made it,\'94 Laurie said. She unzipped his leather jacket and peeled it off his back.\par
Jack could see Lou sitting on the sofa, with a grin that rivaled the Cheshire cat\'92s.\par
Laurie took Jack\'92s arm and pulled him into the living room. \'93Do you want the surprise first or do you want to eat first?\'94 she asked.\par
\'93Let\'92s have the surprise,\'94 Jack said.\par
\'93Good,\'94 Lou said. He bounded off the couch and went to the TV.\par
Laurie guided Jack to the spot Lou had just vacated. \'93Do you want a glass of wine?\'94\par
Jack nodded. He was confused. He hadn\'92t seen any ring, and Lou was intently studying the VCR remote. Laurie disappeared into the kitchen but was soon back with Jack\'92s wine.\par
\'93I don\'92t know how to do this,\'94 Lou complained. \'93At home, my daughter runs the VCR.\'94\par
Laurie took the remote, then told Lou that he had to turn on the TV first.\par
Jack took a sip of the wine. It wasn\'92t much better than what he\'92d brought the previous night.\par
Laurie and Lou joined Jack on the couch. Jack looked from one to the other, but they were ignoring him. They were intently watching the TV screen.\par
\'93What\'92s this surprise?\'94 Jack asked.\par
\'93Just watch,\'94 Laurie said, pointing toward the electronic snow on the TV.\par
More confused than ever, Jack looked at the screen. All of a sudden, there was music and the CNN logo followed by the image of a moderately obese man coming out of a Manhattan restaurant Jack recognized as Positano. The man was surrounded by a group of people.\par
\'93Should I put on the sound?\'94 Laurie asked.\par
\'93Nah, it\'92s not necessary,\'94 Lou said.\par
Jack watched the sequence. When it was over he looked at Laurie and Lou. Both had huge smiles.\par
\'93What is going on here?\'94 Jack questioned. \'93How much wine have you two been drinking?\'94\par
\'93Do you recognize what you\'92ve just seen?\'94 Laurie asked.\par
\'93I\'92d say it was somebody getting shot,\'94 Jack said.\par
\'93It\'92s Carlo Franconi,\'94 Laurie said. \'93After watching it, does it remind you of anything?\'94\par
\'93Sort of reminds me of those old tapes of Lee Harvey Oswald getting shot,\'94 Jack said.\par
\'93Show it to him again,\'94 Lou suggested.\par
Jack watched the sequence for the second time. He divided his attention between the screen and watching Laurie and Lou. They were captivated.\par
After the second run-through, Laurie again turned to Jack and said: \'93Well?\'94\par
Jack shrugged. \'93I don\'92t know what you want me to say.\'94\par
\'93Let me run certain sections in slow motion,\'94 Laurie said. She used the remote to isolate the sequence to where Franconi was about to climb into the limo. She ran it in slow motion, and then stopped it exactly at the moment he was shot. She walked up to the screen and pointed at the base of the man\'92s neck. \'93There\'92s the entry point,\'94 she said.\par
Using the remote again, she advanced to the moment of the next impact when the victim was falling to his right.\par
\'93Well, I\'92ll be damned!\'94 Jack remarked with astonishment. \'93My floater might be Carlo Franconi!\'94\par
Laurie spun around from facing the TV. Her eyes were blazing. \'93Exactly!\'94 she said triumphantly. \'93Obviously, we haven\'92t proved it yet but with the entrance wounds and the paths of the bullets in the floater, I\'92d be willing to bet five dollars.\'94\par
\'93Whoa!\'94 Jack commented. \'93I\'92ll take you up on a five-dollar wager, but I want to remind you that\'92s a hundred percent higher than any bet you\'92ve ever made in my presence.\'94\par
\'93I\'92m that sure,\'94 Laurie said.\par
\'93Laurie is so fast at making associations,\'94 said Lou. \'93She picked up on the similarities right away. She always makes me feel stupid.\'94\par
\'93Get out of here!\'94 Laurie said, giving Lou a friendly shove.\par
\'93Is this the surprise you guys wanted to tell me about?\'94 Jack asked cautiously. He didn\'92t want to get his hopes up.\par
\'93Yes,\'94 Laurie said. \'93What\'92s the matter? Aren\'92t you as excited as we are?\'94\par
Jack laughed with relief. \'93Oh, I\'92m just tickled pink!\'94\par
\'93I can never tell when you are serious,\'94 Laurie said. She detected a certain amount of Jack\'92s typical sarcasm in his reply.\par
\'93It\'92s the best news I\'92ve heard in days,\'94 Jack added. \'93Maybe weeks.\'94\par
\'93All right, let\'92s not overdo it,\'94 Laurie said. She turned off the TV and the VCR. \'93Enough of the surprise, let\'92s eat.\'94\par
Over dinner the conversation turned to why no one even considered that the floater might be Franconi.\par
\'93For me it was the shotgun wound,\'94 Laurie said. \'93Which I knew Franconi didn\'92t have. Also I was thrown off by the body\'92s being found way out off Coney Island. Now, if it had been fished out of the East River, it might have been a different story.\'94\par
\'93I suppose I was thrown off for the same reasons,\'94 Jack said. \'93And then, when I realized the shotgun wound was postmortem, I was already engrossed in the issue about the liver. By the way, Lou, did Franconi have a liver transplant?\'94\par
\'93Not that I know of,\'94 Lou said. \'93He\'92d been sick for a number of years, but I never knew the diagnosis. I hadn\'92t heard anything about a liver transplant.\'94\par
\'93If he didn\'92t have a liver transplant, then the floater isn\'92t Franconi,\'94 Jack said. \'93Even though the DNA lab is having a hard time confirming it, I\'92m personally convinced the floater has a donated liver.\'94\par
\'93What else can you people do to confirm that the floater and Franconi are the same person?\'94 Lou asked.\par
\'93We can request a blood sample from the mother,\'94 Laurie said. \'93Comparing the mitochondrial DNA which all of us inherit only from our mothers, we could tell right away if the floater is Franconi. I\'92m sure the mother will be agreeable, since she\'92d been the one to come to identify the body initially.\'94\par
\'93Too bad an X ray wasn\'92t taken when Franconi came in,\'94 Jack said. \'93That would have done it.\'94\par
\'93But there was an X ray!\'94 Laurie said with excitement. \'93I just found out this evening. Marvin had taken one.\'94\par
\'93Where the hell did it go?\'94 Jack asked.\par
\'93Marvin said that Bingham took it,\'94 Laurie said. \'93It must be in his office.\'94\par
\'93Then I suggest we make a little foray to the morgue,\'94 Jack said. \'93I\'92d like to settle this issue.\'94\par
\'93Bingham\'92s office will be locked,\'94 Laurie said.\par
\'93I think this situation calls for some creative action,\'94 Jack said.\par
\'93Amen,\'94 Lou said. \'93This might be that break I\'92ve been hoping for.\'94\par
As soon as they had finished eating and cleaning up the kitchen, which Jack and Lou had insisted on doing, the three took a cab down to the morgue. They entered through the receiving dock and went directly into the mortuary office.\par
\'93My God!\'94 Marvin commented when he saw both Jack and Laurie. It was rare for two medical examiners to show up at the same time during the evening. \'93Has there been a natural disaster?\'94\par
\'93Where are the janitors?\'94 Jack asked.\par
\'93In the pit last time I looked,\'94 Marvin asked. \'93Seriously, what\'92s up?\'94\par
\'93An identity crisis,\'94 Jack quipped.\par
Jack led the others to the autopsy room and cracked the door. Marvin had been right. Both janitors were busy mopping the expansive terrazzo floor.\par
\'93I assume you guys have keys to the chiefs office,\'94 Jack said.\par
\'93Yeah, sure,\'94 Daryl Foster said. Daryl had been working for the medical examiner\'92s office for almost thirty years. His partner, Jim O\'92Donnel, was a relatively new employee.\par
\'93We\'92ve got to get in there,\'94 Jack said. \'93Would you mind opening it?\'94\par
Daryl hesitated. \'93The chiefs kind\'92a sensitive about people being in his office,\'94 he said.\par
\'93I\'92ll take responsibility,\'94 Jack said. \'93This is an emergency. Besides we have Lieutenant Detective Soldano with us from the police department, who will keep our thievery to a minimum.\'94\par
\'93I don\'92t know,\'94 Daryl said. He was obviously uncomfortable, as well as unimpressed, with Jack\'92s humor.\par
\'93Then give me the key,\'94 Jack said. He stuck out his hand. \'93That way you won\'92t be involved.\'94\par
With obvious reluctance, Daryl removed two keys from his key chain and handed them to Jack. \'93One\'92s for the outer office, and one is for Dr. Bingham\'92s inner office.\'94\par
\'93I\'92ll have them back for you in five minutes,\'94 Jack said.\par
Daryl didn\'92t respond.\par
\'93I think the poor guy was intimidated,\'94 Lou commented as the three rose up to the first floor in the elevator.\par
\'93Once Jack is on a mission, look out!\'94 Laurie said.\par
\'93Bureaucracy irks me,\'94 Jack said. \'93There\'92s no excuse for the X ray to be squirreled away in the chiefs office in the first place.\'94\par
Jack opened the front office\'92s outer door and then Dr. Bingham\'92s inner door. He turned on the lights.\par
The office was large, with a big desk beneath high windows to the left and a large library table to the right. Teaching paraphernalia, including a blackboard and an X-ray view box, were at the head of the table.\par
\'93Where should we look?\'94 Laurie asked.\par
\'93I was hoping they\'92d just be on that view box,\'94 Jack said. \'93But I don\'92t see them. I tell you what, I\'92ll take the desk and the file cabinet, you look around the view box.\'94\par
\'93Fine,\'94 Laurie said.\par
\'93What do you want me to do?\'94 Lou asked.\par
\'93You just stand there and make sure we don\'92t steal anything,\'94 Jack scoffed.\par
Jack pulled out several of the file drawers, but closed them quickly. The full-body X rays that were taken by the morgue came in large folders. It wasn\'92t something easily hidden.\par
\'93This looks promising,\'94 Laurie called out. She\'92d found a stash of X rays in the cabinet directly under the view box. Lifting the folders out onto the library table, she scanned the names. She found Franconi\'92s and pulled them free of the others.\par
Returning to the basement level, Jack got the X rays of the floater and took both folders back to the autopsy room. He gave Bingham\'92s office keys to Daryl and thanked him. Daryl merely nodded.\par
\'93Okay, everybody!\'94 Jack said walking over to the view box. \'93The critical moment has arrived.\'94 First he slipped up Franconi\'92s X rays and then the headless floater\'92s.\par
\'93What do you know,\'94 Jack said after only a second\'92s inspection. \'93I owe Laurie five dollars!\'94\par
Laurie gave a cry of triumph, as Jack gave her the money. Lou scratched his head and leaned closer to the light box to stare at the films. \'93How can you guys tell so quickly?\'94 he asked.\par
Jack pointed out the lumpy shadows of the bullets almost obscured by the mass of shotgun pellets in the floater\'92s X rays and showed how they corresponded to the bullets on the Franconi films. Then he pointed to identical healed clavicular fractures that appeared on the X rays of the two bodies.\par
\'93This is great,\'94 Lou said, rubbing his hands together with enthusiasm that almost matched Laurie\'92s. \'93Now that we have a corpus delicti, we might be able to make some headway in this case.\'94\par
\'93And I\'92ll be able to figure out what the hell\'92s going on concerning this guy\'92s liver,\'94 Jack said.\par
\'93And maybe I\'92ll go on a shopping spree with my money,\'94 Laurie said, giving the five-dollar bill a kiss. \'93But not until I figure out the how and the why this body left here in the first place.\'94\par
\par
\pard\qj Unable to sleep despite having taken two sleeping pills, Raymond slipped out of bed so as not to disturb Darlene. Not that he was terribly worried. Darlene was such a sound sleeper that the ceiling could fall in without her so much as moving.\par
\pard\fi283\qj Raymond padded into the kitchen and turned on the light. He wasn\'92t hungry but he thought that perhaps a little warm milk might help to settle his roiling stomach. Ever since the shock of having been forced to view the terrible sight in the trunk of the Ford, he\'92d been suffering with heartburn. He\'92d tried Maalox, Pepcid AC, and finally Pepto-Bismol. Nothing had helped.\par
Raymond was not handy in the kitchen, mainly because he didn\'92t know where anything was located. Consequently, it took him some time to heat the milk and find an appropriate glass. When it was ready, he carried it into his study and sat at his desk.\par
After taking a few sips, he noticed that it was three-fifteen in the morning. Despite the fuzziness in his brain from the sleeping pills, he was able to figure out that at the Zone it was after nine, a good time to call Siegfried Spallek.\par
The connection was almost instantaneous. At that hour, phone traffic with North America was at a minimum. Aurielo answered promptly and put Raymond through to the director.\par
\'93You are up early,\'94 Siegfried commented. \'93I was going to call you in four or five hours.\'94\par
\'93I couldn\'92t sleep,\'94 Raymond said. \'93What\'92s going on over there? What\'92s the problem with Kevin Marshall?\'94\par
\'93I believe the problem is over,\'94 Siegfried said. Siegfried summarized what had happened and gave credit to Bertram Edwards for alerting him about Kevin so that he could be followed. He said that Kevin and his friends had been given such a scare that they wouldn\'92t dare go near the island again.\par
\'93What do you mean \'91friends\'92?\'94 Raymond asked. \'93Kevin has always been such a loner.\'94\par
\'93He was with the reproductive technologist and one of the surgical nurses,\'94 Siegfried said. \'93Frankly, even that surprised us since he\'92s always been such a schlemiel, or what do you Americans call such a socially inept person?\'94\par
\'93A nerd,\'94 Raymond said.\par
\'93That\'92s it,\'94 Siegfried said.\par
\'93And presumably the stimulus for this attempted visit to the island was the smoke that\'92s been bothering him?\'94\par
\'93That\'92s what Bertram Edwards says,\'94 Siegfried said. \'93And Bertram had a good idea. We\'92re going to tell Kevin that we\'92ve had a work crew our there building a bridge over the stream that divides the island in two.\'94\par
\'93But you haven\'92t,\'94 Raymond said.\par
\'93Of course not,\'94 Siegfried said. \'93The last work crew we had out there was when we built the landing for the extension bridge to the mainland. Of course, Bertram had some people there when he moved those hundred cages out there.\'94\par
\'93I don\'92t know anything about cages on the island,\'94 Raymond said. \'93What are you talking about?\'94\par
\'93Bertram has been lobbying lately to give up on the island isolation idea,\'94 Siegfried said. \'93He thinks that the bonobos should be brought to the animal center and somehow hidden.\'94\par
\'93I want them to stay on the island,\'94 Raymond said emphatically. \'93That was the agreement I worked out with GenSys. They could shut the program down if we bring the animals in. They\'92re paranoid about publicity.\'94\par
\'93I know,\'94 Siegfried said. \'93That\'92s exactly what I told Bertram. He understands but wants to leave the cages there just in case. I don\'92t see any harm in that. In fact, it is good to be prepared for unexpected contingencies.\'94\par
Raymond ran a nervous hand through his hair. He didn\'92t want to hear about any \'93unexpected contingencies.\'94\par
\'93I was going to ask you how you wanted us to handle Kevin and the women,\'94 Siegfried said. \'93But with this explanation about the smoke and having given them a good scare, I think the situation is under control.\'94\par
\'93They didn\'92t get onto the island, did they?\'94 Raymond asked.\par
\'93No, they were only at the staging area,\'94 Siegfried said.\par
\'93I don\'92t even like people nosing around there,\'94 Raymond said.\par
\'93I understand,\'94 Siegfried said. \'93I don\'92t think Kevin will go back for the reasons I\'92ve given. But just to be on the safe side, I\'92m leaving a Moroccan guard and a contingent of the Equatoguinean soldiers out there for a few days, provided you think it\'92s a good idea.\'94\par
\'93That\'92s fine,\'94 Raymond said. \'93But tell me, what\'92s your feeling about smoke coming out of the island, assuming that Kevin is right about it?\'94\par
\'93Me?\'94 Siegfried questioned. \'93I couldn\'92t care less what those animals do out there. As long as they stay there and stay healthy. Does it bother you?\'94\par
\'93Not in the slightest,\'94 Raymond said.\par
\'93Maybe we should send over a bunch of soccer balls,\'94 Siegfried said. \'93That might keep them entertained.\'94 He laughed heartily.\par
\'93I hardly think this is a laughing matter,\'94 Raymond said irritably. Raymond was not fond of Siegfried, although he appreciated his disciplined managerial style. Raymond could picture the director at his desk, surrounded by his stuffed menagerie and those skulls dotting his desk.\par
\'93When are you coming for the patient?\'94 Siegfried asked. \'93I\'92ve been told he\'92s doing fantastically well and ready to go.\'94\par
\'93So I\'92ve heard,\'94 Raymond said. \'93I put in a call to Cambridge, and as soon as the GenSys plane is available, I\'92ll be over. It should be in a day or so.\'94\par
\'93Let me know,\'94 Siegfried said. \'93I\'92ll have a car waiting for you in Bata.\'94\par
Raymond replaced the receiver and breathed a small sigh of relief. He was glad he\'92d called Africa, since part of his current anxiety had stemmed from Siegfried\'92s disturbing message about there being a problem with Kevin. It was good to know the crisis had been taken care of. In fact, Raymond thought that if he could just get the image of that snapshot of him hovering over Cindy Carlson\'92s body out of his mind, he\'92d feel almost like himself again.\par
\par
\par
\pard\qj\fs32 CHAPTER 13\par
\pard\fi283\qj\fs24\par
\pard\qr MARCH 6, 1997\par
12:00 NOON\par
COGO, EQUATORIAL GUINEA\par
\pard\fi283\qj\par
\pard\qj KEVIN was totally unaware of the time when a knock interrupted the intense concentration he\'92d been directing toward his computer screen for several hours. He opened his laboratory door and was promptly greeted by Melanie as she swooped into the room. She was carrying a large paper bag.\par
\pard\fi283\qj\'93Where are your techs?\'94 she asked.\par
\'93I gave them the day off,\'94 Kevin said. \'93There was no way I was going to get any work done today so I told them to enjoy the sun. It\'92s been a long rainy season, and it will be back before we know it.\'94\par
\'93Where\'92s Candace?\'94 Melanie asked. She put down her parcel on the lab bench.\par
\'93I don\'92t know,\'94 Kevin said. \'93I haven\'92t seen or talked with her since we dropped her off at the hospital this morning.\'94\par
It had been a long night. After having hid in the pathology cooler for over an hour, Melanie had talked both Kevin and Candace into sneaking up to the on-call room Melanie had at the animal center. The three had stayed there getting very little sleep, until the early-morning shift change. Blending in with all the employees coming and going, the group had made it back to Cogo without incident.\par
\'93Do you know how to get in touch with her?\'94 Melanie asked.\par
\'93I guess just call the hospital and have her paged,\'94 Kevin suggested. \'93Unless she\'92s in her room in the Inn, which is what I\'92d guess since Horace Winchester is doing so well.\'94 The Inn was the name given to the temporary quarters for transient hospital personnel. It was physically part of the hospital/laboratory complex.\par
\'93Good point!\'94 Melanie said. She picked up the phone and had the operator put her through to Candace\'92s room. Candace answered on the third ring. It was apparent she\'92d been asleep.\par
\'93Kevin and I are going to the island,\'94 Melanie said without preamble. \'93You want to come or hang in here?\'94\par
\'93What are you talking about?\'94 Kevin asked nervously.\par
Melanie motioned for him to be quiet.\par
\'93When?\'94 Candace asked.\par
\'93As soon as you get over here,\'94 Melanie said. \'93We\'92re in Kevin\'92s lab.\'94\par
\'93It will take me a good half hour,\'94 Candace said. \'93I\'92ve got to shower.\'94\par
\'93We\'92ll be waiting,\'94 Melanie said. She hung up the phone.\par
\'93Melanie, are you crazy?\'94 Kevin said. \'93We\'92ve got to let some time go by before we hazard another try at the island.\'94\par
\'93This girl doesn\'92t think so,\'94 Melanie said, giving herself a poke in the chest. \'93The sooner we go, the better. If Bertram finds out a key is missing, he could change the lock, and we\'92ll be back to square one. Besides, like I said last night, they expect us to be terrified. Going out there right away will catch them off-guard.\'94\par
\'93I don\'92t think I\'92m up for this,\'94 Kevin said.\par
\'93Oh really?\'94 Melanie questioned superciliously. \'93Hey, you\'92re the one who\'92s brought up this worry about what we\'92ve created. And now I\'92m really worried. I saw some more circumstantial evidence this morning.\'94\par
\'93Like what?\'94 Kevin asked.\par
\'93I went into the bonobo enclosure out at the animal center,\'94 Melanie said. \'93I made sure no one saw me go in, so don\'92t get yourself all worked up. It took me over an hour, but I managed to find a mother with one of our infants.\'94\par
\'93And?\'94 Kevin questioned. He wasn\'92t sure he wanted to hear the rest.\par
\'93The infant walked around on its hindlegs\'97just like you and I\'97the whole time I was able to observe,\'94 Melanie said. Her dark eyes flashed with emotion akin to anger. \'93Behavior we used to call cute is definitely bipedal.\'94\par
Kevin nodded and looked away. He found Melanie\'92s intensity unnerving, and her conversation was underlining all his own fears.\par
\'93We have to find out for sure what the status is of these creatures,\'94 Melanie said. \'93And we can do that only by going out there.\'94\par
Kevin nodded.\par
\'93So, I made some sandwiches,\'94 Melanie said, pointing toward the paper bag she\'92d brought in with her. \'93We\'92ll call it a picnic.\'94\par
\'93I came across something disturbing this morning as well,\'94 Kevin said. \'93Let me show you.\'94 He grabbed a stool and pushed it over to his computer terminal. He motioned for Melanie to sit down, while he took his own chair. His fingers played over the keyboard. Soon the screen displayed the computer graphic of Isla Francesca.\par
\'93I programmed the computer to follow all seventy-three bonobos on the island for several hours of real-time activity,\'94 Kevin explained. \'93Then I had the data condensed so I could watch it in fast-forward. Look what resulted.\'94\par
Kevin clicked his mouse to start the sequence. The multitude of little red dots rapidly traced out weird geometric designs. It only took a few seconds.\par
\'93Looks like a bunch of chicken scratches,\'94 Melanie said.\par
\'93Except for these two dots,\'94 Kevin said. He pointed to two pinpoints.\par
\'93They apparently didn\'92t move much,\'94 Melanie said.\par
\'93Exactly,\'94 Kevin said. \'93Creature number sixty and creature number sixty-seven.\'94 Kevin reached over and picked up the detailed contour map he\'92d inadvertently taken from Bertram\'92s office. \'93I located creature number sixty to a marshy clearing just south of Lago Hippo. According to the map, there are no trees there.\'94\par
\'93What\'92s your explanation?\'94 Melanie asked.\par
\'93Hang on,\'94 Kevin said. \'93What I did next was reduce the scale of the grid so that it represented a fifty-by-fifty-foot portion of the island right where creature number sixty was located. Let me show you what happened.\'94\par
Kevin keyed in the information and then clicked to start the sequence again. Once again the red light for creature number sixty was a pinpoint.\par
\'93He didn\'92t move at all,\'94 Melanie said.\par
\'93I\'92m afraid not,\'94 Kevin said.\par
\'93You think he\'92s sleeping?\'94\par
\'93In the middle of the morning?\'94 Kevin asked. \'93And with such a scale, even turning over in his sleep should result in some movement. The system is that sensitive.\'94\par
\'93If he\'92s not sleeping, what is he doing?\'94 Melanie asked.\par
Kevin shrugged. \'93I don\'92t know. Maybe he found a way to remove his computer chip.\'94\par
\'93I never thought of that,\'94 Melanie said. \'93That\'92s a scary idea.\'94\par
\'93The only other thing I could think of is the bonobo died,\'94 Kevin said.\par
\'93I suppose that\'92s a possibility,\'94 Melanie said. \'93But I don\'92t think it is very probable. Those are young, extraordinarily healthy animals. We\'92ve made sure of that. And they are in an environment without natural enemies and have more than enough food.\'94\par
Kevin sighed. \'93Whatever it is, it is disturbing, and when we go out there, I think we should check it out.\'94\par
\'93I wonder if Bertram knows about this?\'94 Melanie asked. \'93It doesn\'92t bode well for the program in general.\'94\par
\'93I suppose I should tell him,\'94 Kevin said.\par
\'93Let\'92s wait until we make our visit,\'94 Melanie said.\par
\'93Obviously,\'94 Kevin said.\par
\'93Did you come across anything else with this real-time program?\'94\par
\'93Yup,\'94 Kevin said. \'93I pretty much confirmed my earlier suspicion they are using the caves. Watch!\'94\par
Kevin changed the coordinates of the displayed grid on the computer screen to correspond to a specific portion of the limestone escarpment. He then asked the computer to trace the activity of his own double, creature number one.\par
Melanie watched as the red dot traced a geometric shape then disappeared. It then reappeared at the identical spot and traced a second shape. Then a similar sequence repeated itself for a third time.\par
\'93I guess I\'92d have to agree,\'94 Melanie said. \'93It sure looks like your double is going in and out of the rock face.\'94\par
\'93When we go out there, I think we should make it a point to see our doubles,\'94 Kevin said. \'93They are the oldest of the creatures, and if any of the transgenic bonobos are acting like protohumans, it should be them.\'94\par
Melanie nodded. \'93The idea effacing my double gives me the creeps. But we\'92re not going to have a lot of time out there. And given the twelve-square-mile island it will be extraordinarily difficult for us to find a specific creature.\'94\par
\'93You\'92re wrong,\'94 Kevin said. \'93I\'92ve got the instruments they use for retrievals.\'94 He got up from the computer and went to his desk. When he returned, he was carrying the locator and the directional beacon that Bertram had given to him. He showed the apparatuses to Melanie and explained their use. Melanie was impressed.\par
\'93Where is that girl?\'94 Melanie asked as she checked her watch. \'93I wanted to get this island visit over during lunch hour.\'94\par
\'93Did Siegfried talk to you this morning?\'94 Kevin asked.\par
\'93No, Bertram did,\'94 Melanie said. \'93He acted really mad and said he was disappointed in me. Can you imagine? I mean, is that suppose to break me up or what?\'94\par
\'93Did he give you any explanation about the smoke I\'92ve seen?\'94 Kevin asked.\par
\'93Oh, yeah,\'94 Melanie said. \'93He went on at length how he\'92d just been told that Siegfried had a work crew out there building a bridge and burning trash. He said it was being done without his knowledge.\'94\par
\'93I thought so,\'94 Kevin said. \'93Siegfried called me over just after nine. He gave me the same story. He even told me he\'92d just talked with Dr. Lyons and that Dr. Lyons was disappointed in us as well.\'94\par
\'93It\'92s enough to make you cry,\'94 Melanie said.\par
\'93I don\'92t think he was telling the truth about the work crew,\'94 Kevin said.\par
\'93Of course he wasn\'92t,\'94 Melanie said. \'93I mean, Bertram makes it a point to know everything that\'92s going on about Isla Francesca. It makes you wonder if they think we were born yesterday.\'94\par
Kevin stood up, fidgeted, and stared out his window at the distant island.\par
\'93What\'92s wrong now?\'94 Melanie questioned.\par
\'93Siegfried,\'94 Kevin said. He looked back at Melanie. \'93About his warning to apply Equatoguinean law to us. He reminded us that going to the island could be considered a capital offense. Don\'92t you think we should take that threat seriously?\'94\par
\'93Hell, no!\'94 Melanie said.\par
\'93How can you be so sure,\'94 Kevin said. \'93Siegfried scares me.\'94\par
\'93He\'92d scare me, too, if I was an Equatoguinean,\'94 Melanie said. \'93But we\'92re not. We\'92re Americans. While we\'92re here in the Zone, good old American law applies to us. The worst thing that can happen is we get fired. And as I said last night, I\'92m not sure I wouldn\'92t welcome it. Manhattan is sounding awfully good to me these days.\'94\par
\'93I wish I felt as confident as you,\'94 Kevin said.\par
\'93Has your playing around with the computer this morning confirmed that the bonobos are remaining in two groups?\'94\par
Kevin nodded. \'93The first group is the largest and stays around the caves. It includes most of the older bonobos, including your double and mine. The other group is in a forest area on the north side of the Rio Diviso. It\'92s composed mostly of younger animals, although the third oldest is with them. That\'92s Raymond Lyons\'92s double.\'94\par
\'93Very curious,\'94 Melanie said.\par
\'93Hi, everybody,\'94 Candace called out while coming through the door, without knocking. \'93How\'92d I do timewise? I didn\'92t even blow-dry my hair.\'94 Instead of her normal French twist, her damp hair was combed back straight off her forehead.\par
\'93You did great,\'94 Melanie assured her. \'93And you were the only smart one to get some sleep. I have to admit, I\'92m exhausted.\'94\par
\'93Did Siegfried Spallek get in touch with you?\'94 Kevin asked.\par
\'93At about nine-thirty,\'94 Candace said. \'93He woke me up out of a sound sleep. I hope I made sense.\'94\par
\'93What did he say?\'94 Kevin asked.\par
\'93He was very nice, actually,\'94 Candace said. \'93He even apologized for what happened last night. He also had an explanation about the smoke coming from the island. He said it was from a work crew burning brush.\'94\par
\'93We got the same message,\'94 Kevin said.\par
\'93What\'92s your take on it?\'94 Candace asked.\par
\'93We don\'92t buy it,\'94 Melanie said. \'93It\'92s too convenient.\'94\par
\'93I sort of assumed as much,\'94 Candace said.\par
Melanie grabbed her paper bag. \'93Let\'92s get this show on the road.\'94\par
\'93Do you have the key?\'94 Kevin questioned. He picked up the locator and the directional beacon.\par
\'93Of course I have the key,\'94 Melanie said.\par
As they went out the door Melanie told Candace she\'92d brought some lunch for them.\par
\'93Great!\'94 Candace said. \'93I\'92m famished.\'94\par
\'93Hold on a second,\'94 Kevin said when they reached the stairs. \'93Something just dawned on me. We must have been followed yesterday. That\'92s the only way I can explain the way they surprised us. Of course, that really means I must have been followed, since I was the one who talked about the smoke situation with Bertram Edwards.\'94\par
\'93That\'92s a good point,\'94 Melanie said.\par
The three people stared at each other for a moment.\par
\'93What should we do?\'94 Candace asked. \'93We don\'92t want to be followed.\'94\par
\'93The first thing is that we shouldn\'92t use my car,\'94 Kevin said. \'93Where\'92s yours, Melanie? With this dry weather we can manage without four-wheel drive.\'94\par
\'93Downstairs in the parking lot,\'94 Melanie said. \'93I just drove in from the animal center.\'94\par
\'93Was anybody following you?\'94\par
\'93Who knows?\'94 Melanie said. \'93I wasn\'92t watching.\'94\par
\'93Hmmm,\'94 Kevin pondered. \'93I still think they\'92ll be following me if they follow anybody. So, Melanie, go down and get in your car and head home.\'94\par
\'93What will you guys do?\'94\par
\'93There\'92s a tunnel in the basement that goes all the way out to the power station. Wait about five minutes at your house and pick us up at the power station. There\'92s a side door that opens directly onto the parking lot. You know where I mean?\'94\par
\'93I think so,\'94 Melanie said.\par
\'93All right,\'94 Kevin said. \'93See you there.\'94\par
They split up at the first floor, with Melanie going out into the noonday heat while Candace and Kevin descended to the basement level.\par
After walking for fifteen minutes, Candace commented on what a maze the hallways were.\par
\'93All the power comes from the same source,\'94 Kevin explained. \'93The tunnels connect all the main buildings except for the animal center, which has its own power station.\'94\par
\'93One could get lost down here,\'94 Candace said.\par
\'93I did,\'94 Kevin admitted. \'93A number of times. But during the middle of the rainy season, I find these tunnels handy. They\'92re both dry and cool.\'94\par
As they neared the power station they could hear and feel the vibration of the turbines. A flight of metal steps took them up to the side door. As soon as they appeared, Melanie, who\'92d been parked under a malapa tree, cruised over and picked them up.\par
Kevin got in the back so Candace could climb into the front. Melanie pulled away immediately. The car\'92s air-conditioning felt good given the heat and hundred-percent humidity.\par
\'93See anything suspicious?\'94 Kevin asked.\par
\'93Not a thing,\'94 Melanie said. \'93And I drove around for a while pretending I was on errands. There wasn\'92t anyone following me. I\'92m ninety-nine percent sure.\'94\par
Kevin looked out the back window of Melanie\'92s Honda and watched the area around the power station as it fell behind, then disappeared as they rounded a corner. No people had appeared, and there were no cars in pursuit.\par
\'93I\'92d say it looks good,\'94 Kevin said. He scrunched down on the backseat to be out of sight.\par
Melanie drove around the north rim of the town. While she did so, Candace broke out the sandwiches.\par
\'93Not bad,\'94 Candace said, taking a bite of a tuna fish on whole wheat.\par
\'93I had them made up at the animal-center commissary,\'94 Melanie explained. \'93There are drinks in the bottom of the bag.\'94\par
\'93You want some, Kevin?\'94 Candace called.\par
\'93I suppose,\'94 Kevin said. He stayed on his side. Candace passed him a sandwich and a soft drink between the front bucket seats.\par
They were soon on the road that led east out of town toward the native village. From Kevin\'92s perspective, all he could see was the tops of the liana-covered trees that lined the road, plus a strip of hazy blue sky. After so many months of cloud cover and rain, it was good to see the sun.\par
\'93Anybody following us?\'94 Kevin asked, after they\'92d driven for some time.\par
Melanie glanced in the rearview mirror. \'93I haven\'92t seen a car,\'94 she said. There\'92d been no vehicular traffic in either direction, although there were plenty of native women carrying various burdens on their heads.\par
After they passed the parking lot in front of the general store at the native village and entered the track that led to the island staging area, Kevin sat up. He was no longer worried about being seen. Every few minutes, he looked behind to make sure they weren\'92t being followed. Although he didn\'92t admit it to the women, he was a nervous wreck.\par
\'93That log we hit last night should be coming up soon,\'94 Kevin warned.\par
\'93But we didn\'92t go over it when they brought us out,\'94 Melanie said. \'93They must have moved it.\'94\par
\'93You\'92re right,\'94 Kevin said. He was impressed that Melanie remembered. After the machine-gun fire, the details of the previous night were murky in Kevin\'92s mind.\par
Guessing they were getting close, Kevin moved forward so he could see out the front windshield between the two front seats. Despite the noontime sun the ability to see into the dense jungle lining the road was hardly any better than it had been the evening before. Little light penetrated the vegetation; it was like moving between two walls.\par
They drove into the clearing and stopped. The garage stood to their left while to the right they could see the mouth of the track that led down to the water\'92s edge and the bridge.\par
\'93Should I drive down to the bridge?\'94 Melanie asked.\par
Kevin\'92s nervousness increased. Coming into a dead end bothered him. He debated driving down to the water\'92s edge but guessed there wouldn\'92t be enough room to turn around. That would mean they\'92d have to back out.\par
\'93My suggestion would be to park here,\'94 Kevin said. \'93But let\'92s turn the car around first.\'94\par
Kevin expected an argument, but Melanie put the car in gear without so much as a whimper. They left unspoken the fact that they would now have to walk past the spot where they\'92d been fired upon.\par
Melanie completed her three-point turn. \'93Okay, everybody, here we are,\'94 she said airily, as she pulled on the emergency brake. She was trying to buoy everyone\'92s spirits. They were all tense.\par
\'93I just had an idea which I don\'92t like,\'94 Kevin said.\par
\'93Now what?\'94 Melanie asked, looking at him in the rearview mirror.\par
\'93Maybe I should quietly walk down to the bridge and make sure no one is around,\'94 Kevin said.\par
\'93Like who?\'94 Melanie asked, but the thought of unwanted company had occurred to her as well.\par
Kevin took a deep breath to bolster his sagging courage and climbed out. \'93Anybody,\'94 he said. \'93Even Alphonse Kimba.\'94 He hiked up his pants and started off.\par
The track down toward the water was so thickly shrouded with vegetation, it was even more like a tunnel than the track in from the road. As soon as Kevin entered it, it twisted to the right. The canopy of trees and vines blocked out much of the light. The center strip of vegetation was so tall that the track was more like two parallel trails.\par
Kevin rounded the first bend, then stopped. The unmistakable sound of boots running on the damp ground combined with the jingling of metal against metal made his stomach turn. Ahead, the track turned to the left. Kevin held his breath. In the next instant, he saw a group of Equatoguinean soldiers in their camouflage fatigues, rounding the bend and coming in his direction. All were carrying Chinese assault rifles.\par
Kevin spun on his heels and sprinted back up the trail like he\'92d never sprinted before. As he reached the clearing, he yelled to Melanie to get the hell out of there. Reaching the car he threw open the rear door and dived in.\par
Melanie was trying to start the car. \'93What happened?\'94 she screamed.\par
\'93Soldiers!\'94 Kevin croaked. \'93A bunch of them!\'94\par
The car engine caught and roared to life. At the same time, the soldiers spilled into the clearing. One of them yelled as Melanie stomped on the accelerator.\par
The little car leaped forward, and Melanie fought the wheel. There was a burst of gunfire and the rear window of the Honda shattered into a million cubic shards. Kevin flattened himself against the backseat. Candace screamed as her window was blown out as well.\par
The track turned left just beyond the clearing. Melanie managed to keep the car in the tracks and then pushed the car to its limit. After they\'92d gone seventy yards, there was another distant burst of gunfire. A few stray bullets whined over the car as Melanie navigated another slight turn.\par
\'93Good God!\'94 Kevin said, as he sat up and brushed the glass from the rear window off his torso.\par
\'93Now I\'92m really mad,\'94 Melanie said. \'93That was hardly a burst over our heads. Look at that rear window!\'94\par
\'93I think I want to retire,\'94 Kevin said. \'93I\'92ve always been afraid of those soldiers and now I know why.\'94\par
\'93I guess the key to the bridge is not going to do us much good,\'94 Candace said. \'93What a waste after all the effort we went through to get it.\'94\par
\'93It\'92s damn irritating,\'94 Melanie agreed. \'93We\'92re just going to have to come up with an alternate plan.\'94\par
\'93I\'92m going to bed,\'94 Kevin said. He couldn\'92t believe these women; they seemed fearless. He put a hand over his heart; it was beating more rapidly than it ever had before.\par
\par
\par
\pard\qj\fs32 CHAPTER 14\par
\pard\fi283\qj\fs24\par
\pard\qr MARCH 6, 1997\par
6:45 A.M.\par
NEW YORK CITY\par
\pard\fi283\qj\par
\pard\qj WITH a burst of speed, Jack made the green light at the intersection of First Avenue and Thirtieth Street and sailed across without slowing down. Angling the bike up the morgue\'92s driveway, he didn\'92t brake until the last minute. Moments later, he had the bike locked and was on his way to the office of Janice Jaeger, the night forensic investigator.\par
\pard\fi283\qj Jack was keyed up. After near conclusive identification of his floater as Carlo Franconi, Jack had gotten little sleep. He\'92d been on and off the phone with Janice, finally imploring her to get copies of all of Franconi\'92s records from the Manhattan General Hospital. Her preliminary investigation had determined that Franconi had been hospitalized there.\par
Jack had also had Janice get the phone numbers of the European human organ distribution organizations from Bart Arnold\'92s desk. Because of the six-hour-time difference, Jack had started calling after three \scaps a.m\scaps0 . He was most interested in the organization called Euro Transplant Foundation in the Netherlands. When they had no record of a Carlo Franconi as a recent liver recipient, Jack called all the national organizations whose numbers he had. They included organizations in France, England, Italy, Sweden, Hungary, and Spain. No one had heard of Carlo Franconi. On top of that, most of the people he had spoken with said that it would be rare for a foreign national to get such a transplant because most of the countries had waiting lists comprised of their own citizens.\par
After only a few hours of sleep, Jack\'92s curiosity had awakened him. Unable to get back to sleep, he\'92d decided to get into the morgue early to go over the material that Janice had collected.\par
\'93My word, you are eager,\'94 Janice commented as Jack came into her office.\par
\'93This is the kind of case that makes forensics fun,\'94 Jack said. \'93How\'92d you do at the MGH?\'94\par
\'93I got a lot of material,\'94 Janice said. \'93Mr. Franconi had multiple admissions over the years, mostly for hepatitis and cirrhosis.\'94\par
\'93Ah, the plot thickens,\'94 Jack said. \'93When was the last admission?\'94\par
\'93About two months ago,\'94 Janice said. \'93But no transplant. There is mention of it, but if he had one, he didn\'92t have it at the MGH.\'94 She handed Jack a large folder.\par
Jack hefted the package and smiled. \'93Guess I got a lot of reading to do.\'94\par
\'93It looked pretty repetitive to me,\'94 Janice said.\par
\'93What about his doctor?\'94 Jack asked. \'93Has he had one in particular or has he been playing the field?\'94\par
\'93One for the most part,\'94 Janice said. \'93Dr. Daniel Levitz on Fifth Avenue between Sixty-fourth and Sixty-fifth Street. His office number is written on the outside of your parcel.\'94\par
\'93You are efficient,\'94 Jack said.\par
\'93I try to do my best,\'94 Janice said. \'93Have any luck with those European organ distribution organizations?\'94\par
\'93A complete strikeout,\'94 Jack said. \'93Have Bart give me a call as soon as he comes in. We have to go back and retry all the transplant centers in this country now that we have a name.\'94\par
\'93If Bart\'92s not in by the time I leave, I\'92ll put a note on his desk,\'94 Janice said.\par
Jack whistled as he walked through communications on his way to the ID room. He could taste the coffee already while dreaming of the euphoria that the first cup of the day always gave him. But when he arrived he could see he was too early. Vinnie Amendola was just in the process of making it.\par
\'93Hurry up with that coffee,\'94 Jack said, as he dropped his heavy package onto the metal desk Vinnie used to read his newspaper. \'93It\'92s an emergency this morning.\'94\par
Vinnie didn\'92t answer, which was out of character, and Jack noticed. \'93Are you still in a bad mood?\'94 he asked.\par
Vinnie still didn\'92t answer, but Jack\'92s mind was already elsewhere. He\'92d seen the headlines on Vinnie\'92s paper: \scaps Franconi\'92s Body Found\scaps0 . Beneath the headline in slightly smaller print was: \'93Franconi\'92s corpse languishing in the Medical Examiner\'92s Office for twenty-four hours before identity established.\'94\par
Jack sat down to read the article. As usual, it was written in a sarcastic bent with the implication that the city\'92s medical examiners were bunglers. Jack thought it was interesting that while the journalist had had enough information to write the article, he didn\'92t appear to know that the body had been headless and handless in a deliberate attempt to conceal its identity. Nor did it mention anything about the shotgun wound to its right upper quadrant.\par
After finishing with the coffee preparation, Vinnie came over to stand next to the desk while Jack read. Impatiently, he shifted his weight from one foot to the other. When Jack finally looked up Vinnie said irritably: \'93Do you mind! I\'92d like to have my paper.\'94\par
\'93You see this article?\'94 Jack asked, slapping the front page.\par
\'93Yeah, I seen it,\'94 Vinnie said.\par
Jack resisted the temptation to correct his English. Instead he said: \'93Did it surprise you? I mean, when we did the autopsy yesterday, did it ever cross your mind it might have been the missing Franconi?\'94\par
\'93No, why should it?\'94 Vinnie said.\par
\'93I\'92m not saying it should,\'94 Jack said. \'93I\'92m just asking if it did.\'94\par
\'93No,\'94 Vinnie said. \'93Let me have my paper! Why don\'92t you buy your own? You\'92re always reading mine.\'94\par
Jack stood up, pushed Vinnie\'92s paper toward him, and lifted the bundle from Janice. \'93You really are out of sorts lately. Maybe you need a vacation. You\'92re fast becoming a grumpy old man.\'94\par
\'93At least I\'92m not a cheapskate,\'94 Vinnie said. He picked up his paper and readjusted the pages that Jack had gotten out of alignment.\par
Jack went to the coffeemaker and poured himself a brimming cup. He took it over to the scheduling desk. While sipping contentedly, he went through the multitude of Franconi\'92s hospital admissions. On his first perusal of the material, he just wanted the basics, so he read each discharge summary page. As Janice had already told him, the admissions were mostly due to liver problems starting from a bout of hepatitis he contracted in Naples, Italy.\par
Laurie arrived next. Before she even had her coat off, she asked Jack if he\'92d seen the paper or heard the morning news. Jack told her he\'92d seen the \i Post\i0 .\par
\'93Was it your doing?\'94 Laurie asked, as she folded her coat and put it on a chair.\par
\'93What are you talking about?\'94\par
\'93The leak that we tentatively identified Franconi with your floater,\'94 Laurie said.\par
Jack gave a little laugh of disbelief. \'93I\'92m surprised you\'92d even ask. Why would I do such a thing?\'94\par
\'93I don\'92t know, except you were so excited about it last night,\'94 Laurie said. \'93But I didn\'92t mean any offense. I was just surprised to see it in the news so quickly.\'94\par
\'93You and me both,\'94 Jack said. \'93Maybe it was Lou.\'94\par
\'93I think that would surprise me even more than you,\'94 Laurie said.\par
\'93Why me?\'94 Jack said. He sounded hurt.\par
\'93Last year you leaked the plague story,\'94 Laurie said.\par
\'93That was a completely different situation,\'94 Jack said defensively. \'93That was to save people.\'94\par
\'93Well, don\'92t get mad,\'94 Laurie said. To change the subject she asked: \'93What kind of cases do we have for today?\'94\par
\'93I didn\'92t look,\'94 Jack admitted. \'93But the pile is small and I have a request. If possible, I\'92d like to have a paper day or really a research day.\'94\par
Laurie bent over and counted the autopsy folders. \'93Only ten cases; no problem,\'94 she said. \'93I think I\'92ll only do one myself. Now that Franconi\'92s body is back, I\'92m even more interested to find out how it left here in the first place. The more I\'92ve thought about it, the more I believe it had to have been an inside job in some form or fashion.\'94\par
There was a splashing sound followed by loud cursing. Both Laurie and Jack looked over at Vinnie, who\'92d jumped up to a standing position. He\'92d spilled his coffee all over his desk and even onto his lap.\par
\'93Watch out for Vinnie,\'94 Jack warned Laurie. \'93He\'92s again in a foul mood.\'94\par
\'93Are you all right, Vinnie?\'94 Laurie called out.\par
\'93I\'92m okay,\'94 Vinnie said. He walked stiff-legged over to the coffeepot to get some paper towels.\par
\'93I\'92m a little confused,\'94 Jack said to Laurie. \'93Why does Franconi\'92s return make you more interested in his disappearance?\'94\par
\'93Mainly because of what you found during the autopsy,\'94 Laurie said. \'93At first I thought that whoever stole the body had done it out of pure spite, like the killer wanted to deny the man a proper funeral, something like that. But now it seems that the body was taken to destroy the liver. That\'92s weird. Initially I thought that solving the riddle of how the body disappeared was simply a challenge. Now I think if I can figure out how the body disappeared, we might be able to find out who did it.\'94\par
\'93I\'92m beginning to understand what Lou said about feeling stupid about your ability to make associations,\'94 Jack said. \'93With Franconi\'92s disappearance I always thought the \'91why\'92 was more important than the \'91how.\'92 You\'92re suggesting they are related.\'94\par
\'93Exactly,\'94 Laurie said. \'93The \'91how\'92 will lead to the \'91who,\'92 and the \'91who\'92 will explain the \'91why.\'92\~\'94\par
\'93And you think someone who works here is involved,\'94 Jack said.\par
\'93I\'92m afraid I do,\'94 Laurie said. \'93I don\'92t see how they could have pulled it off without someone on the inside. But I still have no clue how it happened.\'94\par
\par
\pard\qj After his call to Siegfried, Raymond\'92s brain had finally succumbed to the high levels of hypnotic medication circulating in his bloodstream from the two sleeping pills. He slept soundly through the remaining early hours. The next thing he was aware of was Darlene opening the curtains to let in the daylight. It was almost eight o\'92clock, the time he\'92d asked to be awakened.\par
\pard\fi283\qj\'93Feel better, dear?\'94 Darlene asked. She made Raymond sit forward so she could fluff up his pillow.\par
\'93I do,\'94 Raymond admitted, although his mind was fuzzy from the sleeping pills.\par
\'93I even made you your favorite breakfast,\'94 Darlene said. She went over to the bureau and lifted a wicker tray. She carried it over to the bed and placed it across Raymond\'92s lap.\par
Raymond\'92s eyes traveled around the tray. There was fresh-squeezed orange juice, two strips of bacon, a single-egg omelette, toast, and fresh coffee. In a side pocket was the morning paper.\par
\'93How\'92s that?\'94 Darlene asked proudly.\par
\'93Perfect,\'94 Raymond said. He reached up and gave her a kiss.\par
\'93Let me know when you want more coffee,\'94 Darlene said. Then she left the room.\par
With childlike pleasure Raymond buttered his toast and sipped his orange juice. As far as he was concerned, there was nothing quite so wonderful as the smell of coffee and bacon in the morning.\par
Taking a bite of both bacon and omelette at the same time to savor the combined tastes, Raymond lifted the paper, opened it, and glanced at the headlines.\par
He gasped, inadvertently inhaling some of his food. He coughed so hard, he bucked the wicker tray off the bed. It crashed upside down on the carpet.\par
Darlene came running into the room and stood wringing her hands, while Raymond went through series of coughing jags that turned him tomato red.\par
\'93Water!\'94 he squeaked between fits.\par
Darlene dashed into the bathroom and returned with a glass. Raymond clutched it and managed to drink a small amount. The bacon and egg that he\'92d had in his mouth was now distributed in an arc around the bed.\par
\'93Are you all right?\'94 Darlene asked. \'93Should I call 911?\'94\par
\'93The wrong way down,\'94 Raymond croaked. He pointed to his Adam\'92s apple.\par
It took Raymond five minutes to recover. By that time, his throat was sore and his voice hoarse. Darlene had cleaned up most of the mess he\'92d caused except for the coffee stain on the white carpet.\par
\'93Did you see the paper?\'94 Raymond asked Darlene.\par
She shook her head, so Raymond spread it out for her.\par
\'93Oh, my,\'94 she said.\par
\'93Oh, my!\'94 Raymond repeated sarcastically. \'93And you were wondering why I was still worried about Franconi!\'94 Raymond forcibly crumpled the paper.\par
\'93What are you going to do?\'94 Darlene asked.\par
\'93I suppose I have to go back and see Vinnie Dominick,\'94 Raymond said. \'93He promised me the body was gone. Some job he did!\'94\par
The phone rang and Raymond jumped.\par
\'93Do you want me to answer it?\'94 Darlene asked.\par
Raymond nodded. He wondered who could be calling so early.\par
Darlene picked up the phone and said hello followed by several yeses. Then she put the phone on hold.\par
\'93It\'92s Dr. Waller Anderson,\'94 Darlene said with a smile. \'93He wants to come on board.\'94\par
Raymond exhaled. Until then he\'92d not been aware he\'92d been holding his breath. \'93Tell him we\'92re pleased, but that I\'92ll have to call him later.\'94\par
Darlene did as she was told and then hung up the phone. \'93At least that was good news,\'94 she said.\par
Raymond rubbed his forehead and audibly groaned. \'93I just wish everything would go as well as the business side.\'94\par
The phone rang again. Raymond motioned for Darlene to answer it. After saying hello and listening for a moment, her smile quickly faded. She put the phone on hold and told Raymond it was Taylor Cabot.\par
Raymond swallowed hard. His already irritated throat had gone dry. He took a quick swig of water and took the receiver.\par
\'93Hello, sir!\'94 Raymond managed. His voice was still hoarse.\par
\'93I\'92m calling from my car phone,\'94 Taylor said. \'93So I won\'92t be too specific. But I have just been informed of the reemergence of a problem I thought had been taken care of. What I said earlier about this issue still stands. I hope you understand.\'94\par
\'93Of course, sir,\'94 Raymond squeaked. \'93I will\~.\~.\~.\'94\par
Raymond stopped speaking. He took the phone away from his ear and looked at it. Taylor had cut him off.\par
\'93Just what I need,\'94 Raymond said, as he handed the phone back to Darlene. \'93Another threat from Cabot to close down the program.\'94\par
Raymond put his feet over the side of the bed. As he stood up and slipped on his robe, he could still feel the remnants of yesterday\'92s headache. \'93I have to go find Vinnie Dominick\'92s number. I need another miracle.\'94\par
\par
\pard\qj By eight o\'92clock Laurie and the others were down in the \'93pit\'94 starting their autopsies. Jack had stayed in the ID room to read through the records of Carlo Franconi\'92s hospital admissions. When he noticed the time, he went back to the forensics area to find out why the chief investigator, Bart Arnold, had not come in that day. Jack was surprised when he found the man in his office.\par
\pard\fi283\qj\'93Didn\'92t Janice talk to you this morning?\'94 Jack asked. He and Bart were good enough friends so that Jack thought nothing of marching right into Bart\'92s office and plopping himself down.\par
\'93I just came in fifteen minutes ago,\'94 Bart said. \'93Janice was already gone.\'94\par
\'93Wasn\'92t there a message on your desk?\'94 Jack asked.\par
Bart started to peek around under the clutter. Bart\'92s desk looked strikingly similar to Jack\'92s. Bart pulled out a note which he read aloud: \'93Important! Call Jack Stapleton immediately.\'94 It was signed \'93Janice.\'94\par
\'93Sorry,\'94 Bart said. \'93I\'92d have seen it eventually.\'94 He smiled weakly, knowing there was no excuse.\par
\'93I suppose you\'92ve heard that my floater has been just about conclusively identified as Carlo Franconi,\'94 Jack said.\par
\'93So I\'92ve heard,\'94 Bart said.\par
\'93That means I want you to go back to UNOS and all the centers that do liver transplantation with the name.\'94\par
\'93That\'92s a lot easier than asking them to check if any of their recent transplants is missing,\'94 Bart said. \'93With all the phone numbers handy I can do that in a flash.\'94\par
\'93I spent most of the night on the phone with the organizations in Europe responsible for organ allocation,\'94 Jack said. \'93I came up with zilch.\'94\par
\'93Did you talk to Euro Transplant in the Netherlands?\'94 Bart asked.\par
\'93I called them first,\'94 Jack said. \'93They had no record of a Franconi.\'94\par
\'93Then it\'92s pretty safe to say that Franconi didn\'92t have his transplant in Europe,\'94 Bart said. \'93Euro Transplant keeps tabs on the whole continent.\'94\par
\'93The next thing I want is for someone to go visit Franconi\'92s mother and talk her into giving a blood sample. I want Ted Lynch to run a mitochondrial DNA match with the floater. That will clinch the identity, so it will no longer be presumptive. Also have the investigator ask the woman if her son had a liver transplant. It will be interesting to hear what she has to say.\'94\par
Bart wrote Jack\'92s requests down. \'93What else?\'94 Bart asked.\par
\'93I think that\'92s it for now,\'94 Jack said. \'93Janice told me Franconi\'92s doctor\'92s name is Daniel Levitz. Is that anyone you have come in contact with?\'94\par
\'93If it\'92s the Levitz on Fifth, then I\'92ve come in contact with him.\'94\par
\'93What was your take?\'94 Jack asked.\par
\'93High-profile practice with wealthy clientele. He\'92s a good internist as far as I could tell. The curious thing is that he takes care of a lot of the crime families, so it\'92s not surprising he was taking care of Carlo Franconi.\'94\par
\'93Different families?\'94 Jack questioned. \'93Even families in competition with each other?\'94\par
\'93Strange, isn\'92t it?\'94 Bart said. \'93It must be one big headache for the poor receptionist who does the scheduling. Can you imagine having two rival crime figures with their bodyguards in the waiting room at the same time?\'94\par
\'93Life\'92s stranger than fiction,\'94 Jack said.\par
\'93Do you want me to go to Dr. Levitz and get what I can on Franconi?\'94 Bart asked.\par
\'93I think I\'92ll do that myself,\'94 Jack said. \'93I have a sneaking suspicion that when talking with Franconi\'92s doctor what\'92s unsaid is going to be more important than what is said. You concentrate on finding out where Franconi got his transplant. I think that\'92s going to be the key piece of information in this case. Who knows, it might just explain everything.\'94\par
\'93There you are!\'94 a robust voice boomed. Both Jack and Bart looked up to see the doorway literally filled with the imposing figure of Dr. Calvin Washington, the deputy chief.\par
\'93I\'92ve been looking all over for you, Stapleton,\'94 Calvin growled. \'93Come on! The chief wants to see you.\'94\par
Jack gave Bart a wink before getting to his feet. \'93Probably just another of the many awards he\'92s given me.\'94\par
\'93I wouldn\'92t be so glib if I were you,\'94 Calvin snapped, as he made room for Jack to pass. \'93Once again, you got the old man all riled up.\'94\par
Jack followed Calvin to the administration area. Just before going into the front office, Jack caught a glimpse of the waiting room. There were more than the usual number of journalists.\par
\'93Something going on?\'94 Jack asked.\par
\'93As if I have to tell you,\'94 Calvin grunted.\par
Jack didn\'92t understand, but he didn\'92t have a chance to ask more. Calvin was already asking Mrs. Sanford, Bingham\'92s secretary, if they could go into the chiefs office.\par
As it turned out, the timing wasn\'92t good, and Jack was relegated to sitting on the bench that faced Mrs. Sanford\'92s desk. Obviously, she was as upset as her boss and treated Jack to several disapproving looks. Jack felt like a naughty schoolboy waiting to see the principal. Calvin used the time by disappearing into his own office to make a few phone calls.\par
Having a reasonable idea of what the chief was upset about, Jack tried to come up with an explanation. Unfortunately, none came to mind. After all, he could have waited to get Franconi\'92s X rays until Bingham\'92s arrival that morning.\par
\'93You can go in now,\'94 Mrs. Sanford said, without looking up from her typing. She\'92d noticed the light on her extension phone had gone out, meaning the chief was off the phone.\par
Jack entered the chiefs office with a sense of d\'e9j\'e0 vu. A year ago, during a series of infectious disease cases, Jack had managed to drive the chief to distraction, and there had been several such confrontations.\par
\'93Get in here and sit down,\'94 Bingham said roughly.\par
Jack took the seat in front of the man\'92s desk. Bingham had aged in the last few years. He looked considerably older than sixty-three. He glared at Jack through his wire-rimmed glasses. Despite his jowls and sagging flesh, Jack saw that his eyes were as intense and intelligent as ever.\par
\'93I was just beginning to think you were really fitting in around here, and now this,\'94 Bingham said.\par
Jack didn\'92t respond. He felt it best not to say anything until he was asked a question.\par
\'93Can I at least ask why?\'94 Bingham said obligingly in his deep, husky voice.\par
Jack shrugged. \'93Curiosity,\'94 Jack said. \'93I was excited and I couldn\'92t wait.\'94\par
\'93Curiosity!\'94 Bingham roared. \'93That was the same lame excuse you used last year when you disregarded my orders and went over to the MGH.\'94\par
\'93At least I\'92m consistent,\'94 Jack said.\par
Bingham moaned. \'93And now here comes the impertinence. You really haven\'92t changed much, have you?\'94\par
\'93My basketball has improved,\'94 Jack said.\par
Jack heard the door open. He turned to see Calvin slip into the room. Calvin folded his massive arms across his chest and stood to the side like an elite harem guard.\par
\'93I\'92m not getting anywhere with him,\'94 Bingham complained to Calvin, as if Jack were no longer in the room. \'93I thought you said his behavior had improved.\'94\par
\'93It had, until this episode,\'94 Calvin said. He then glared down at Jack. \'93What irks me,\'94 Calvin said, finally addressing Jack, \'93is that you know damn well that releases from the medical examiner\'92s office are to come from Dr. Bingham or through public relations, period! You examiner grunts are not to take it upon yourselves to divulge information. The reality is that this job is highly politicized, and in the face of our current problems we certainly don\'92t need more bad press.\'94\par
\'93Time out,\'94 Jack said. \'93Something\'92s not right here. I\'92m not sure we\'92re talking the same language.\'94\par
\'93You can say that again,\'94 Bingham asserted.\par
\'93What I mean is,\'94 Jack said, \'93I don\'92t think we are talking about the same issue. When I came in here, I thought I was being called onto the carpet because I bullied the janitor into giving me keys for this office so I could find Franconi\'92s films.\'94\par
\'93Hell, no!\'94 Bingham yelled. He pointed his finger at Jack\'92s nose. \'93It\'92s because you leaked the story about Franconi\'92s body being discovered here at the morgue after it had been stolen. What did you think? This would somehow advance your career?\'94\par
\'93Hold up,\'94 Jack said. \'93First, I\'92m not all that excited about advancing my career. Second, I was not responsible for this story getting to the media.\'94\par
\'93You\'92re not?\'94 Bingham asked.\par
\'93Certainly, you\'92re not suggesting that Laurie Montgomery was responsible?\'94 Calvin asked.\par
\'93Not at all,\'94 Jack said. \'93But it wasn\'92t me. Look, to tell you the truth, I don\'92t even think it\'92s a story.\'94\par
\'93That\'92s not how the media feels,\'94 Bingham said. \'93Nor the mayor for that matter. He\'92s already called me twice this morning, asking what kind of circus we\'92re running around here. This Franconi business continues to make us look bad in the eyes of the entire city\'97particularly when news about our own office takes us by surprise.\'94\par
\'93The real story about Franconi isn\'92t about his body going on an overnight out of the morgue,\'94 Jack said. \'93It\'92s about the fact that the man seemingly had a liver transplant that no one knows about, that\'92s hard to detect by DNA analysis, and that somebody wanted to hide it.\'94\par
Bingham looked up at Calvin, who raised his hands defensively. \'93This is the first I\'92ve heard about this,\'94 he said.\par
Jack gave a rapid summary of his autopsy findings and then told about Ted Lynch\'92s confusing DNA analysis results.\par
\'93This sounds weird,\'94 Bingham said. He took off his glasses and wiped his rheumy eyes. \'93It also sounds bad, considering that I want this whole Franconi business to fade away. If there is something truly screwy going on like Franconi getting an unauthorized liver, then that\'92s not going to happen.\'94\par
\'93I\'92ll know more today,\'94 Jack said. \'93I\'92ve got Bart Arnold contacting all the transplant centers around the country, John DeVries up in the lab running assays for immunosuppressants, Maureen O\'92Conner in histology pushing through the slides, and Ted doing a six polymarker DNA test, which he contends is foolproof. By this afternoon, we\'92ll know for sure whether there\'92d been a transplant, and, if we\'92re lucky, where it had taken place.\'94\par
Bingham squinted across his desk at Jack. \'93And you\'92re sure you didn\'92t leak today\'92s newspaper story to the media?\'94\par
\'93Scout\'92s honor,\'94 Jack said, holding up two fingers to form a V.\par
\'93All right, I apologize,\'94 Bingham said. \'93But listen, Stapleton, keep this all under your hat. And don\'92t go irritating everyone under the sun, so that I start getting calls complaining about your behavior. You have a knack for getting under people\'92s skin. And finally, promise me that nothing goes to the media unless it goes through me. Understand?\'94\par
\'93As clear as a crystal,\'94 Jack said.\par
\par
\pard\qj Jack could rarely find an excuse to get out on his mountain bike during the day, so that it was with a good deal of pleasure that he pedaled with the traffic up First Avenue on his way to visit Dr. Daniel Levitz. There was no sun, but the temperature was pleasantly in the fifties, heralding the coming spring. For Jack, spring was the best season in New York City.\par
\pard\fi283\qj With his bike safely secured to a \scaps no parking\scaps0  sign, Jack walked up to the sidewalk entrance of Dr. Daniel Levitz\'92s office. Jack had called ahead to make sure the doctor was in, but he\'92d specifically avoided making an appointment. It was Jack\'92s feeling that a surprise visit might be more fruitful. If Franconi had had a transplant, there was definitely something surreptitious about it.\par
\'93Your name please?\'94 the silver-haired matronly receptionist asked.\par
Jack flashed open his medical examiner badge. Its shiny surface and official appearance confused most people into thinking it was a police badge. In situations like this, Jack didn\'92t explain the difference. The badge never failed to cause a reaction.\par
\'93I must see the doctor,\'94 Jack said, slipping his badge back inside his pocket. \'93The sooner the better.\'94\par
When the receptionist regained her voice, she asked for Jack\'92s name. When he gave it, he left off the title of doctor so as not to clarify the nature of his employ.\par
The receptionist immediately scraped back her chair and disappeared into the depths of the office.\par
Jack\'92s eyes roamed the waiting room. It was generous in size and lavishly decorated. It was a far cry from the utilitarian waiting room he\'92d had when he\'92d been a practicing ophthalmologist. That had been before the retraining necessitated by the managed-care invasion. To Jack, it seemed like a previous life, and in many ways it was.\par
There were five well-dressed people in the waiting room. All eyed Jack clandestinely as they continued to peruse their respective magazines. As they noisily flipped the pages, Jack sensed an aura of irritation, as if they knew he was about to upset the schedule and relegate them to additional waiting. Jack hoped none of them were notorious crime figures who might consider such an inconvenience a reason for revenge.\par
The receptionist reappeared, and with embarrassing subservience, she guided Jack back to the doctor\'92s private study. Once Jack was inside, she closed the door.\par
Dr. Levitz was not in the room. Jack sat in one of the two chairs facing the desk and surveyed the surroundings. There were the usual framed diplomas and licenses, the family pictures, and even the stacks of unread medical journals. It was all familiar to Jack and gave him a shudder. From his current vantage point, he wondered how he\'92d lasted as long as he had in a similar, confining environment.\par
Dr. Daniel Levitz came through a second door. He was dressed in his white coat complete with pocket full of tongue depressors and assorted pens. A stethoscope hung from his neck. Compared with Jack\'92s muscular, thick-shouldered, six-foot frame, Dr. Levitz was rather short and almost fragile in appearance.\par
Jack immediately noticed the man\'92s nervous tics, which involved slight twists and nods of his head. Dr. Levitz gave no indication he was aware of these movements. He shook hands stiffly with Jack and then retreated behind the vast expanse of his desk.\par
\'93I\'92m very busy,\'94 Dr. Levitz said. \'93But, of course, I always have time for the police.\'94\par
\'93I\'92m not the police,\'94 Jack said. \'93I\'92m Dr. Jack Stapleton from the Office of the Chief Medical Examiner of New York.\'94\par
Dr. Levitz\'92s head twitched as did his sparse mustache. He appeared to swallow. \'93Oh,\'94 he commented.\par
\'93I wanted to talk to you briefly about one of your patients,\'94 Jack said.\par
\'93My patients\'92 conditions are confidential,\'94 Dr. Levitz said, as if by rote.\par
\'93Of course,\'94 Jack said. He smiled. \'93That is, of course, until they have died and become a medical examiner\'92s case. You see, I want to ask you about Mr. Carlo Franconi.\'94\par
Jack watched as Dr. Levitz went through a number of bizarre motions, making Jack glad the man had not gone into brain surgery.\par
\'93I still respect my patients\'92 confidentiality,\'94 he said.\par
\'93I can understand your position from an ethical point of view,\'94 Jack said. \'93But I should remind you that we medical examiners in the State of New York have subpoena power in such a circumstance. So, why don\'92t we just have a conversation? Who knows, we might be able to clear things up.\'94\par
\'93What do you want to know?\'94 Dr. Levitz asked.\par
\'93I learned from reading Mr. Franconi\'92s extensive hospital history that he\'92d had a long bout with liver problems leading to liver failure,\'94 Jack said.\par
Dr. Levitz nodded, which caused his right shoulder to jerk several times. Jack waited until these involuntary movements subsided.\par
\'93To come right to the point,\'94 Jack said, \'93the big question is whether or not Mr. Franconi had a liver transplant.\'94\par
At first Levitz did not speak. He merely twitched. Jack was determined to wait the man out.\par
\'93I don\'92t know anything about a liver transplant,\'94 Dr. Levitz said finally.\par
\'93When did you see him last?\'94 Jack asked.\par
Dr. Levitz picked up his phone and asked one of his assistants to bring in Mr. Carlo Franconi\'92s record.\par
\'93It will just be a moment,\'94 Dr. Levitz said.\par
\'93In one of Mr. Franconi\'92s hospital admissions about three years ago, you specifically wrote that it was your opinion that a transplant would be necessary. Do you remember writing that?\'94\par
\'93Not specifically,\'94 Dr. Levitz said. \'93But I was aware of a deteriorating condition, as well as Mr. Franconi\'92s failure to stop drinking.\'94\par
\'93But you never mentioned it again,\'94 Jack said. \'93I found that surprising when it was easy to see a gradual but relentless deterioration in his liver function tests over the next couple of years.\'94\par
\'93A doctor can only do so much to influence his patient\'92s behavior,\'94 Dr. Levitz said.\par
The door opened and the deferential receptionist brought in a fat folder. Wordlessly she placed it on Dr. Levitz\'92s desk and withdrew.\par
Dr. Levitz picked it up and, after a quick glance, said that he\'92d seen Carlo Franconi a month previously.\par
\'93What did you see him for?\'94\par
\'93An upper respiratory infection,\'94 Dr. Levitz said. \'93I prescribed some antibiotic. Apparently, it worked.\'94\par
\'93Did you examine him?\'94\par
\'93Of course!\'94 Dr. Levitz said with indignation. \'93I always examine my patients.\'94\par
\'93Had he had a liver transplant?\'94\par
\'93Well, I didn\'92t do a complete physical,\'94 Dr. Levitz explained. \'93I examined him appropriately in reference to his complaint and his symptoms.\'94\par
\'93You didn\'92t even feel his liver, knowing his history?\'94 Jack asked.\par
\'93I didn\'92t write it down if I did,\'94 Dr. Levitz said.\par
\'93Did you do any blood work that would reflect liver function?\'94 Jack asked.\par
\'93Only a bilirubin,\'94 Dr. Levitz said.\par
\'93Why only a bilirubin?\'94\par
\'93He\'92d been jaundiced in the past,\'94 Dr. Levitz said. \'93He looked better, but I wanted to document it.\'94\par
\'93What was the result?\'94 Jack asked.\par
\'93It was within normal limits,\'94 Dr. Levitz said.\par
\'93So, except for his upper respiratory infection, he was doing quite well,\'94 Jack said.\par
\'93Yes, I suppose you could say that,\'94 Dr. Levitz said.\par
\'93Almost like a miracle,\'94 Jack said. \'93Especially as you\'92ve already mentioned the man was unwilling to curb his alcohol intake.\'94\par
\'93Perhaps he finally had stopped,\'94 Dr. Levitz said. \'93After all, people can change.\'94\par
\'93Would you mind if I looked at his record?\'94 Jack asked.\par
\'93Yes, I would mind,\'94 Dr. Levitz said. \'93I\'92ve already stated my ethical position about confidentiality. If you want these records, you will have to subpoena them. I\'92m sorry. I don\'92t mean to be obstructive.\'94\par
\'93That\'92s quite all right,\'94 Jack said agreeably. He stood up. \'93I\'92ll let the state\'92s attorney\'92s office know how you feel. Meanwhile, thanks for your time, and if you don\'92t mind, I\'92ll probably be talking with you in the near future. There\'92s something very strange about this case, and I intend to get to the bottom of it.\'94\par
Jack smiled to himself, as he undid the locks on his bike. It was so obvious that Dr. Levitz knew more than he was willing to say. How much more, Jack didn\'92t know, but certainly it added to the intrigue. Jack had an intuitive sense that not only was this the most interesting case he\'92d had so far in his forensics career, it might be the most interesting case he\'92d ever have.\par
Returning to the morgue, he stashed his bike in the usual location, went up to his office to drop off his coat, then went directly to the DNA lab. But Ted wasn\'92t ready for him.\par
\'93I need a couple more hours,\'94 Ted said. \'93And I\'92ll call you! You don\'92t have to come up here.\'94\par
Disappointed but undeterred, Jack descended a floor to histology and checked on the progress of his permanent microscopic sections on what was now labeled the Franconi case.\par
\'93My god!\'94 Maureen complained. \'93What do you expect, miracles? I\'92m rushing your slides through ahead of everybody else, but still you\'92ll be lucky to get them today.\'94\par
Still trying to keep his spirits up and his curiosity at bay, Jack rode the elevator down to the second floor and sought out John DeVries in the lab.\par
\'93The assays for cyclosporin A and FK506 are not easy,\'94 John snapped. \'93Besides, we\'92re backed up as it is. You can\'92t expect instant service with the budget I have to work with.\'94\par
\'93Okay!\'94 Jack said agreeably, as he backed out of the lab. He knew that John was an irascible individual, and if aroused, he could be passive aggressive. If that happened, it might be weeks before Jack got the test results.\par
Descending yet another floor, Jack went into Bart Arnold\'92s office and implored the man to give him something since he\'92d struck out every place else.\par
\'93I\'92ve made a lot of calls,\'94 Bart said. \'93But you know the situation with voice mail. You almost never get anyone on the phone anymore. So, I got a lot of messages out there, waiting for callbacks.\'94\par
\'93Jeez,\'94 Jack complained. \'93I feel like a teenage girl with a new dress, waiting to get asked to the prom.\'94\par
\'93Sorry,\'94 Bart said. \'93If it\'92s any consolation, we did manage to get a blood sample from Franconi\'92s mother. It\'92s already up in the DNA lab.\'94\par
\'93Was the mother asked whether her son had a liver transplant?\'94\par
\'93Absolutely,\'94 Bard said. \'93Mrs. Franconi assured the investigator that she didn\'92t know anything about a transplant. But she did admit that her son had been much healthier lately.\'94\par
\'93To what did she attribute his sudden health?\'94 Jack asked.\par
\'93She says he went away to a spa someplace and came back a new man.\'94\par
\'93Did she happen to say where?\'94 Jack questioned.\par
\'93She didn\'92t know,\'94 Bart said. \'93At least that\'92s what she told the investigator, and the investigator told me that she thought she was telling the truth.\'94\par
Jack nodded as he got to his feet. \'93Figures,\'94 he said. \'93Getting a bona fide tip from the mother would have been much too easy.\'94\par
\'93I\'92ll keep you informed as soon as I start getting callbacks,\'94 Bart said.\par
\'93Thanks,\'94 Jack said.\par
Feeling frustrated, Jack walked through communications to the ID room. He thought maybe some coffee would cheer him up. He was surprised to find Lieutenant Detective Lou Soldano busily helping himself to a cup.\par
\'93Uh-oh,\'94 Lou said. \'93Caught red-handed.\'94\par
Jack eyed the homicide detective. He looked better than he had in days. Not only was the top button of his shirt buttoned, but his tie was cinched up in place. On top of that, he was close shaven and his hair was combed.\par
\'93You look almost human today,\'94 Jack said.\par
\'93I feel that way,\'94 Lou said. \'93I got my first decent night\'92s sleep in days. Where\'92s Laurie?\'94\par
\'93In the pit, I presume,\'94 Jack said.\par
\'93I gotta pat her on the back again for making that association with your floater after watching the video,\'94 Lou said. \'93All of us down at headquarters think it might lead to a break in this case. Already we\'92ve gotten a couple of good tips from our informers because it\'92s stimulated a lot of talk in the streets, especially over in Queens.\'94\par
\'93Laurie and I were surprised to see it in the papers this morning,\'94 Jack commented. \'93That was a lot faster than we expected. Do you have any idea who was the source?\'94\par
\'93I was,\'94 Lou said innocently. \'93But I was careful not to give any details other than the fact that the body had been identified. Why, is there a problem?\'94\par
\'93Only that Bingham went mildly ballistic,\'94 Jack said. \'93And I was hauled in as the culprit.\'94\par
\'93Gosh, I\'92m sorry,\'94 Lou said. \'93It didn\'92t dawn on me it could cause a problem here. I guess I should have run it by you. Well, I owe you.\'94\par
\'93Forget it,\'94 Jack said. \'93It\'92s already patched up.\'94 He poured himself some coffee, shoveled in some sugar, and added a dollop of cream.\par
\'93At least it had the desired effect on the street,\'94 Lou said. \'93And we learned something important already. The people who killed him were definitely not the same people who took his body and mauled it.\'94\par
\'93Doesn\'92t surprise me,\'94 Jack said.\par
\'93No?\'94 Lou questioned. \'93I thought that was the general consensus around here. At least that\'92s what Laurie said.\'94\par
\'93She now thinks the people that took the body did it because they didn\'92t want anyone to know he\'92d had a liver transplant,\'94 Jack said. \'93I still favor the idea it was done to conceal the individual\'92s identity.\'94\par
\'93Really,\'94 Lou said pensively, sipping his coffee. \'93That doesn\'92t make any sense to me. You see we\'92re reasonably sure the body was taken on orders from the Lucia crime family, the direct competitors of the Vaccarros, who we understand had Franconi killed.\'94\par
\'93Good grief!\'94 Jack exclaimed. \'93Are you sure about that?\'94\par
\'93Reasonably,\'94 Lou said. \'93The informer who divulged it is usually reliable. Of course, we don\'92t have any names. That\'92s the frustrating part.\'94\par
\'93Just the idea that organized crime is involved is appalling,\'94 Jack said. \'93It means that the Lucia people are somehow involved in organ transplants. If that doesn\'92t make you lose sleep, nothing will.\'94\par
\par
\pard\qj\'93Calm down!\'94 Raymond yelled into the phone. The moment he\'92d been about to leave the apartment, the phone had rung. When he heard it was Dr. Daniel Levitz on the line, he\'92d taken the call.\par
\pard\fi283\qj\'93Don\'92t tell me to calm down!\'94 Daniel shouted back. \'93You\'92ve seen the papers. They have Franconi\'92s body! And already a medical examiner by the name of Dr. Jack Stapleton has been in my office asking for Franconi\'92s records.\'94\par
\'93You didn\'92t give them, did you?\'94 Raymond asked.\par
\'93Of course not!\'94 Daniel snapped. \'93But he condescendingly reminded me that he could subpoena them. I\'92m telling you, this guy was very direct and very aggressive, and he vowed to get to the bottom of the case. He suspects Franconi had a transplant. He asked me directly.\'94\par
\'93Do your records have any information at all about his transplant or our program?\'94 Raymond asked.\par
\'93No, I followed your suggestions in that regard to the letter,\'94 Daniel said. \'93But it\'92s going to look very strange if anybody looks at my records. After all, I\'92d been documenting Franconi\'92s deteriorating status for years. Then all of a sudden, his liver function studies are normal without any explanation, nothing! Not even a comment. I\'92m telling you there\'92ll be questions, and I don\'92t know whether I can handle them. I\'92m very upset. I wish I\'92d never gotten involved in all this.\'94\par
\'93Now let\'92s not get carried away,\'94 Raymond said with a calmness that he himself did not feel. \'93There\'92s no way Stapleton could get to the bottom of the case. Our concern about an autopsy was purely hypothetical and based on an infinitesimally small chance someone with the IQ of Einstein could figure out the source of the transplant. It\'92s not going to happen. But I appreciate your calling me about Dr. Stapleton\'92s visit. As it turns out, I\'92m on my way this very minute to have a meeting with Vinnie Dominick. With his resources, I\'92m sure he\'92ll be able to take care of everything. After all, to a large measure, he\'92s responsible for the present situation.\'94\par
As soon as he could, Raymond got off the phone. Appeasing Dr. Daniel Levitz wasn\'92t doing anything for his own anxiety. After advising Darlene what to say in the unlikely chance Taylor Cabot called back, he left the apartment. Catching a taxi at the corner of Madison and Sixty-fourth, he instructed the cabbie how to get to Corona Avenue in Elmhurst.\par
The scene at the Neopolitan Restaurant was exactly the same as it had been the day before, with the addition of the stale smell of a couple of hundred more cigarettes. Vinnie Dominick was sitting in the same booth and his minions were lounging on the same bar stools. The obese bearded man was again busily washing glassware.\par
Raymond lost no time. After coming through the heavy red velvet drape at the door, he made a beeline for Vinnie\'92s booth and slid in without invitation. He pushed forward the crumpled newspaper, which he\'92d painstakingly smoothed out, across the table.\par
Vinnie gazed down at the headlines nonchalantly.\par
\'93As you can see, there\'92s a problem,\'94 Raymond said. \'93You promised me the body was gone. Obviously, you screwed up.\'94\par
Vinnie picked up his cigarette, took a long drag, then blew the smoke at the ceiling.\par
\'93Doc,\'94 Vinnie said. \'93You never fail but to amaze me. You either have a lot of nerve or you\'92re crazy. I don\'92t tolerate this kind of disrespect even from my trusted lieutenants. Either you reword what you just said to me or get up and get yourself lost before I get really pissed.\'94\par
Raymond swallowed hard while he got a finger between his neck and his shirt and adjusted his collar. Remembering to whom he was speaking gave him a chill. A mere nod from Vinnie Dominick could find him bobbing around in the East River.\par
\'93I\'92m sorry,\'94 Raymond said meekly. \'93I\'92m not myself. I\'92m very upset. After I saw the headlines, I got a call from the CEO of GenSys, threatening the whole program. I also got a call from Franconi\'92s doctor, who told me he\'92d been approached by one of the medical examiners. An ME named Jack Stapleton dropped by his office wanting to see Franconi\'92s records.\'94\par
\'93Angelo!\'94 Vinnie called out. \'93Come over here!\'94\par
Angelo ambled over to the booth. Vinnie asked him if he knew a Dr. Jack Stapleton at the morgue. Angelo shook his head.\par
\'93I\'92ve never seen him,\'94 Angelo said. \'93But Vinnie Amendola mentioned him when he called this morning. He said Stapleton was all fired up about Franconi because Franconi is his case.\'94\par
\'93You see, I\'92ve gotten a few calls myself,\'94 Vinnie said. \'93Not only did I get a call from Vinnie Amendola who\'92s still sweating it because we leaned on him to help us get Franconi out of the morgue. I also got another call from my wife\'92s brother who runs the funeral home that took the body out. Seems that Dr. Laurie Montgomery paid a visit and was asking about a body that doesn\'92t exist.\'94\par
\'93I\'92m sorry that this has all gone so badly,\'94 Raymond said.\par
\'93You and me both,\'94 Vinnie said. \'93To tell you the truth, I can\'92t understand how they got the body back. We went to some effort knowing the ground was too hard to bury it out in Westchester. So we took it way the hell out off Coney Island and dumped it into the ocean.\'94\par
\'93Obviously, something went wrong,\'94 Raymond said. \'93With all due respect, what can be done at this point?\'94\par
\'93As far as the body is concerned, we can\'92t do anything. Vinnie Amendola told Angelo that the autopsy was already done. So that\'92s that.\'94\par
Raymond moaned and cradled his head. His headache had intensified.\par
\'93Just a second, Doc,\'94 Vinnie said. \'93I want to reassure you about something. Since I knew the reason why an autopsy might cause problems for your program, I had Angelo and Carlo destroy Franconi\'92s liver.\'94\par
Raymond raised his head. A ray of hope had appeared on the horizon. \'93How did you do that?\'94 he asked.\par
\'93With a shotgun,\'94 Vinnie said. \'93They blasted the hell out of the liver. They totally destroyed this whole portion of the abdomen.\'94 Vinnie made a circling motion with his hand over his right upper quadrant. \'93Right, Angelo?\'94\par
Angelo nodded. \'93The entire magazine of a pump action Remington. The guy\'92s gut looked like hamburger.\'94\par
\'93So I don\'92t think you have as much to worry about as you think,\'94 Vinnie said to Raymond.\par
\'93If Franconi\'92s liver was totally destroyed, why is Jack Stapleton asking whether Franconi had a transplant?\'94 Raymond asked.\par
\'93Is he?\'94 Vinnie asked.\par
\'93He asked Dr. Levitz directly,\'94 Raymond said.\par
Vinnie shrugged. \'93He must have gotten a clue some other way. At any rate, the problem now seems to be focused on these two characters: Dr. Jack Stapleton and Dr. Laurie Montgomery.\'94\par
Raymond raised his eyebrows expectantly.\par
\'93As I already told you, Doc,\'94 Vinnie continued. \'93If it weren\'92t for Vinnie Junior and his bum kidneys, I wouldn\'92t have gotten involved in all this. The fact that I\'92ve since gotten my wife\'92s brother into this situation compounds my problem. Now that I got him involved I can\'92t leave him dangling, you see what I\'92m saying? So, here\'92s what I\'92m thinking. I\'92ll have Angelo and Franco pay a visit to these two doctors and take care of things. Would you mind that, Angelo?\'94\par
Raymond looked hopefully at Angelo, and for the first time since Raymond had seen Angelo, Angelo smiled. It wasn\'92t much of a smile because all the scar tissue precluded most facial movement, but it was a smile nonetheless.\par
\'93I\'92ve been looking forward to meeting Laurie Montgomery for five years,\'94 Angelo said.\par
\'93I suspected as much,\'94 Vinnie said. \'93Can you get their addresses from Vinnie Amendola?\'94\par
\'93I\'92m sure he\'92ll be happy to give us Dr. Stapleton\'92s,\'94 Angelo said. \'93He wants this messy situation cleared up as much as anybody. As far as Laurie Montgomery is concerned, I already know her address.\'94\par
Vinnie stubbed out his cigarette and raised his own eyebrows. \'93So, Doc, what do you think of the idea of Angelo and Franco visiting the two pesky medical examiners and convincing them to see things our way? They have to be convinced that they are causing us considerable inconvenience, if you know what I mean.\'94 A wry smile appeared on his face, and he winked.\par
Raymond let out a little laugh of relief. \'93I can\'92t think of a better solution.\'94 He worked his way along the curved, velvet banquette seat and stood up. \'93Thank you, Mr. Dominick. I\'92m much obliged, and apologize again for my thoughtless outburst when I first arrived.\'94\par
\'93Hold on, Doc,\'94 Vinnie said. \'93We haven\'92t discussed compensation yet.\'94\par
\'93I thought this would be covered under the rubric of our prior agreement,\'94 Raymond said, trying to sound businesslike without offending Vinnie. \'93After all, Franconi\'92s body was not supposed to reappear.\'94\par
\'93That\'92s not the way I see it,\'94 Vinnie said. \'93This is an extra. Since you\'92ve already bargained away the tuition issue, I\'92m afraid we\'92re now talking about recouping some of my initiation fee. What about twenty thousand? That sounds like a nice round figure.\'94\par
Raymond was outraged, but he managed to stifle a response. He also remembered what happened the last time he tried to bargain with Vinnie Dominick: the cost doubled.\par
\'93It might take me a little time to get that kind of money together,\'94 Raymond said.\par
\'93That\'92s fine, Doc,\'94 Vinnie said. \'93Just as long as we have an agreement. From my end, I\'92ll get Angelo and Franco right on it.\'94\par
\'93Wonderful,\'94 Raymond managed to say before leaving.\par
\'93Are you serious about this?\'94 Angelo asked Vinnie.\par
\'93I\'92m afraid so,\'94 Vinnie said. \'93I guess it wasn\'92t such a smart idea to get my brother-in-law involved in all this, although at the time we didn\'92t have much choice. One way or the other, I got to clean it up otherwise my wife will have my balls. The only good part is that I was able to get the good doc to pay for what I\'92d have to do anyway.\'94\par
\'93When do you want us to take care of those two?\'94 Angelo asked.\par
\'93The sooner the better,\'94 Vinnie said. \'93In fact, you\'92d better do it tonight!\'94\par
\par
\par
\pard\qj\fs32 CHAPTER 15\par
\pard\fi283\qj\fs24\par
\pard\qr MARCH 6, 1997\par
7:30 P.M.\par
COGO, EQUATORIAL GUINEA\par
\pard\fi283\qj\par
\pard\qj\'93AT what time did you expect your guests?\'94 Esmeralda asked Kevin. Her body and head were wrapped in a handsome bright orange-and-green fabric.\par
\pard\fi283\qj\'93Seven o\'92clock,\'94 Kevin said, happy for the distraction. He\'92d been sitting at his desk, trying to fool himself into believing he was reading one of his molecular biology journals. In reality, he was tortured by repeatedly running through the harrowing events of that afternoon.\par
He could still see the soldiers in their red berets and jungle camouflage fatigues seemingly coming out of nowhere. He could hear their boots pounding against the moist earth and the jangle of their equipment as they ran. Worse yet, he could feel the same sickening terror that he\'92d felt when he\'92d turned to flee, expecting at any instant to hear the sound of machine-gun fire.\par
The dash across the clearing to the car and the wild ride had been somehow anticlimactic to that initial fright. The windows being shot out had an almost surreal quality that somehow couldn\'92t compare to his first glimpse of those soldiers.\par
Melanie had once again responded to the event completely differently than Kevin. It made Kevin wonder if growing up in Manhattan had somehow toughened her for such experiences. Rather than expressing fear, Melanie was more angry than afraid. She was furious at the soldiers\'92 wanton destruction of what she considered her property, even though the car technically belonged to GenSys.\par
\'93The dinner is prepared,\'94 Esmeralda said. \'93I shall keep it warm.\'94\par
Kevin thanked his attentive housekeeper, and she disappeared back into the kitchen. Tossing aside his journal, Kevin got up from his desk and walked out onto the veranda. Night had fallen, and he was beginning to worry about where Melanie and Candace could be.\par
Kevin\'92s house fronted a small grassy square illuminated by old-fashioned street lamps. Directly across the square was Siegfried Spallek\'92s house. It was similar to Kevin\'92s with an arcaded first floor, a veranda around the second, and dormers in its steeply pitched roof. At present, there were lights only in the kitchen end of the house. Apparently, the manager had not yet come home.\par
Heading laughter to his left, Kevin turned in the direction of the waterfront. There had been a tropical downpour for an hour that had just ended fifteen minutes previously. The cobblestones were steaming since they\'92d still been hot from the sun. Into this lighted mist walked the two women, arm in arm, laughing merrily.\par
\'93Hey, Kevin!\'94 Melanie shouted, spying Kevin on his balcony. \'93How come you didn\'92t send a carriage?\'94\par
The women walked to a point directly beneath Kevin who was embarrassed by their revelry.\par
\'93What are you talking about?\'94 Kevin asked.\par
\'93Well, you didn\'92t expect us to get soaked, did you?\'94 Melanie joked. Candace giggled.\par
\'93Come on up,\'94 Kevin encouraged. His eyes roamed around the small square, hoping that his neighbors weren\'92t being disturbed.\par
The women came up the stairs with great commotion. Kevin met them in the hall. Melanie insisted on giving Kevin a kiss on both cheeks. Candace did likewise.\par
\'93Sorry we\'92re late,\'94 Melanie said. \'93But the rain forced us to take shelter at the Chickee Bar.\'94\par
\'93And a friendly group of men from the motor pool insisted on buying us pi\'f1a coladas,\'94 Candace said gaily.\par
\'93It\'92s okay,\'94 Kevin said. \'93But dinner is ready.\'94\par
\'93Fantastic,\'94 Candace said. \'93I\'92m famished.\'94\par
\'93Me too,\'94 Melanie said. She reached down and slipped off her shoes. \'93I hope you don\'92t mind my going barefoot. My shoes got a little wet on the way up here.\'94\par
\'93Me too,\'94 Candace said as she followed suit.\par
Kevin motioned toward the dining room and trailed the women in. Esmeralda had laid the table at one end since it was large enough for twelve. There was a small tablecloth just covering the area under the dishes. There were also candles burning in glass holders.\par
\'93How romantic,\'94 Candace commented.\par
\'93I hope we\'92re having wine,\'94 Melanie said as she took the seat closest to her.\par
Candace went around and sat opposite Melanie, leaving the head of the table for Kevin.\par
\'93White or red?\'94 Kevin asked.\par
\'93Any color,\'94 Melanie said. Then she laughed.\par
\'93What are we eating?\'94 Candace asked.\par
\'93It\'92s a local fish,\'94 Kevin said.\par
\'93A fish! How appropriate,\'94 Melanie said, which caused both women to laugh to the point of tears.\par
\'93I don\'92t get it,\'94 Kevin said. He had the distinct feeling that when he was around these two women, he wasn\'92t in control of anything and understood less than half the conversation.\par
\'93We\'92ll explain later,\'94 Melanie managed. \'93Get the wine. That\'92s more important.\'94\par
\'93Let\'92s have white,\'94 Candace said.\par
Kevin went into the kitchen and got the wine that he had earlier put into the refrigerator. He avoided looking at Esmeralda, worried what she must be thinking with these tipsy women as guests. Kevin didn\'92t know what to think himself.\par
As he opened the wine, he could hear them carrying on with lively conversation and laughter. The good side, he reminded himself, was that with Melanie and Candace there were never any uncomfortable silences.\par
\'93What kind of wine are we having?\'94 Melanie asked when Kevin reappeared. Kevin showed her the bottle. \'93Oh, my,\'94 she said with feigned condescension. \'93Montrachet! Aren\'92t we lucky tonight.\'94\par
Kevin had had no idea what he\'92d picked from his collection of wine bottles, but he was pleased Melanie was impressed. He poured the wine as Esmeralda appeared with the first course.\par
The dinner was an unqualified success. Even Kevin began to relax after attempting to keep up with the women as far as the wine was concerned. About halfway through the meal he was forced to return to the kitchen for another bottle.\par
\'93You can\'92t guess who else was at the chickee hut,\'94 Melanie said as the entree dishes were being cleared. \'93Our fearless leader Siegfried.\'94\par
Kevin choked on his wine. He wiped his face with his napkin. \'93You didn\'92t talk to him, did you?\'94\par
\'93It would have been hard not to,\'94 Melanie said. \'93He graciously asked if he could join us and even bought a round, not only for us but also for the guys from the motor pool.\'94\par
\'93He was actually quite charming,\'94 Candace said.\par
Kevin felt a chill descend down his spine. The second ordeal of the afternoon which scared him almost as much as the first was a visit to Siegfried\'92s office. No sooner had they evaded the Equatoguinean soldiers then Melanie had insisted on driving there. It made no difference what Kevin said in an attempt to talk her out of it.\par
\'93I\'92m not going to stand for this kind of treatment,\'94 Melanie had said as they mounted the stairs. She didn\'92t even bother to speak with Aurielo. She just sailed into Siegfried\'92s office and demanded that he personally see to it that her car was repaired.\par
Candace had gone in with Melanie, but Kevin had held back, watching from just beyond Aurielo\'92s desk.\par
\'93Last night I lost my sunglasses,\'94 Melanie had said. \'93So we go out there just to see if we can find them, and we get shot at again!\'94\par
Kevin had expected Siegfried to explode. But he didn\'92t. Instead, he was immediately apologetic, said that the soldiers were only out there to keep people away from the island, and that they shouldn\'92t have fired their guns. He agreed not only to fix Melanie\'92s car but to make sure she got a loaner in the interim. He also offered to have the soldiers scour the area for the lost sunglasses.\par
Esmeralda appeared with the dessert. The women were pleased. It was made with locally grown cocoa.\par
\'93Did Siegfried mention anything about what happened today?\'94 Kevin asked.\par
\'93He apologized again,\'94 Candace said. \'93He said he spoke with the Moroccan guard and assured us that there won\'92t be any more shooting. He said that if anybody wanders out there by the bridge, they will just be spoken to and told that the area is off-limits.\'94\par
\'93Likely story,\'94 Kevin said. \'93As trigger-happy as those kids they call soldiers are, it\'92s not going to happen.\'94\par
Melanie laughed. \'93Talk about the soldiers, Siegfried said that they spent hours searching for the nonexistent sunglasses. Serves them right!\'94\par
\'93He did ask us if we wanted to talk with some of the workers who\'92d been on the island and who\'92d been burning underbrush,\'94 Candace said. \'93Can you believe it?\'94\par
\'93And how did you respond?\'94 Kevin asked.\par
\'93We told him it wasn\'92t necessary,\'94 Candace said. \'93I mean, we don\'92t want him to think we\'92re still concerned about the smoke, and we definitely don\'92t want him to think we\'92re planning on visiting the island.\'94\par
\'93But we\'92re not,\'94 Kevin said. He eyed the women while they smiled at each other conspiratorially. \'93Are we?\'94 As far as Kevin was concerned, getting shot at twice had been more than enough to convince him that visiting the island was out of the question.\par
\'93You wondered why we laughed when you told us we were having fish for dinner,\'94 Melanie said. \'93Remember?\'94\par
\'93Yeah,\'94 Kevin said with concern. He had the distinct feeling he wasn\'92t going to like what Melanie was about to say.\par
\'93We laughed because we spent a good deal of the late afternoon talking to fishermen who come to Cogo a couple of times a week,\'94 Melanie said. \'93Probably the ones who caught the fish we just ate. They come from a town called Acalayong about ten to twelve miles east of here.\'94\par
\'93I know the town,\'94 Kevin said. It was the jumping-off place for people going from Equatorial Guinea to Cocobeach, Gabon. The route was served by motorized canoes called pirogues.\par
\'93We rented one of their boats for two or three days,\'94 Melanie said proudly. \'93So we don\'92t have to even go near the bridge. We can visit Isla Francesca by water.\'94\par
\'93Not me,\'94 Kevin said emphatically. \'93I\'92ve had it. Frankly, I think we\'92re lucky to be alive. If you guys want to go, go! I know that nothing I could ever say would influence what you do.\'94\par
\'93Oh, that\'92s great!\'94 Melanie said derisively. \'93You\'92re giving up already! If that\'92s the case, how do you intend to find out whether you and I have created a race of protohumans? I mean, you\'92re the one who\'92s raised this issue and got us all upset.\'94\par
Melanie and Candace stared at Kevin across the table. For a few minutes, no one said a word. The night sounds of the jungle drifted in, which until then no one had heard.\par
After feeling progressively uncomfortable, Kevin finally broke the silence. \'93I don\'92t know what I\'92m going to do yet,\'94 he said. \'93I\'92ll think of something.\'94\par
\'93Like hell you will,\'94 Melanie said. \'93You already said the only way to find out what those animals are doing is to visit the island. Those were your words. Have you forgotten?\'94\par
\'93No, I haven\'92t forgotten,\'94 Kevin said. \'93It\'92s just that\~.\~.\~. well\~.\~.\~.\'94\par
\'93That\'92s okay,\'94 Melanie said condescendingly. \'93If you\'92re too chicken to go and find out what you might have done with your genetic tinkering, fine. We were counting on you coming to help run the motor in the pirogue, but that\'92s okay. Candace and I can manage. Right, Candace?\'94\par
\'93Right,\'94 Candace said.\par
\'93You see we\'92ve planned this out pretty carefully,\'94 Melanie said. \'93Not only did we rent the large, motorized canoe, but we had them bring back a smaller, paddle version as well. We plan to tow the paddle boat. Once we get to the island, we\'92ll paddle up the Rio Diviso. Maybe we won\'92t even have to go on land at all. All we want to do is observe the animals for a while.\'94\par
Kevin nodded. He looked back and forth between the two women who were relentlessly staring at him. Acutely uncomfortable, he scraped back his chair and started from the room.\par
\'93Where are you going?\'94 Melanie asked.\par
\'93To get more wine,\'94 Kevin said.\par
With strange emotion akin to anger, Kevin got a third bottle of white Burgundy, opened it, and brought it back into the dining room. He gestured with it toward Melanie and she nodded. Kevin filled her glass. He did the same to Candace. Then he filled his own.\par
After taking his seat, Kevin took a healthy swig of wine. He coughed a little after swallowing, and then asked when they planned on going on their great expedition.\par
\'93Tomorrow, bright and early,\'94 Melanie said. \'93We figure it will take a little over an hour to get to the island, and we\'92d like to be back before the sun gets really strong.\'94\par
\'93We already got food and drink from the commissary,\'94 Candace said. \'93And I got a portable cooler from the hospital to pack it in.\'94\par
\'93We\'92ll stay far away from the bridge and the staging area,\'94 Melanie said. \'93So that won\'92t be a problem.\'94\par
\'93I think it\'92s going to be kind of fun,\'94 Candace said. \'93I\'92d love to see a hippopotamus.\'94\par
Kevin took another gulp of wine.\par
\'93I suppose you don\'92t mind if we take those electronic gizmos to locate the animals,\'94 Melanie said. \'93And we could use the contour map. Of course, we\'92ll be careful with them.\'94\par
Kevin sighed and sagged in his chair. \'93All right, I give up. What time is this mission scheduled?\'94\par
\'93Oh goody,\'94 Candace said, clapping her hands together. \'93I knew you\'92d come.\'94\par
\'93The sun comes up after six,\'94 Melanie said. \'93I\'92d like to be in the boat and on our way by then. My plan is to head west, then swing way out into the estuary before going east. That way we won\'92t evoke any suspicions here in town if anyone sees us getting into the boat. I\'92d like them to think we were going off to Acalayong.\'94\par
\'93What about work?\'94 Kevin asked. \'93Won\'92t you be missed?\'94\par
\'93Nope,\'94 Melanie said. \'93I told the people in the lab I\'92d be unreachable at the animal center. Whereas the people in the animal center I told\~.\~.\~.\'94\par
\'93I get the picture,\'94 Kevin interjected. \'93What about you, Candace?\'94\par
\'93No problem,\'94 Candace said. \'93As long as Mr. Winchester keeps doing as well as he\'92s doing, I\'92m essentially unemployed. The surgeons are golfing and playing tennis all day. I can do what I like.\'94\par
\'93I\'92ll call my head tech,\'94 Kevin said. \'93I\'92ll tell him I\'92m under the weather with an acute attack of insanity.\'94\par
\'93Wait a second,\'94 Candace said suddenly. \'93I just thought of a problem.\'94\par
Kevin sat bolt upright. \'93What?\'94 he asked.\par
\'93I don\'92t have any sunblock,\'94 Candace said. \'93I didn\'92t bring any because on my three previous visits I never saw the sun.\'94\par
\par
\par
\pard\qj\fs32 CHAPTER 16\par
\pard\fi283\qj\fs24\par
\pard\qr MARCH 6, 1997\par
2:30 P.M.\par
NEW YORK CITY\par
\pard\fi283\qj\par
\pard\qj WITH all the tests on Franconi pending, Jack had forced himself to go to his office and try to concentrate on some of his other outstanding cases. To his surprise, he\'92d made reasonable headway until the phone rang at two-thirty.\par
\pard\fi283\qj\'93Is this Dr. Stapleton?\'94 a female voice with an Italian accent asked.\par
\'93It is indeed,\'94 Jack said. \'93Is this Mrs. Franconi?\'94\par
\'93Imogene Franconi. I got a message to call you.\'94\par
\'93I appreciate it, Mrs. Franconi,\'94 Jack said. \'93First let me extend my sympathies to you in regards to your son.\'94\par
\'93Thank you,\'94 Imogene said. \'93Carlo was a good boy. He didn\'92t do any of those things they said in the newspapers. He worked for the American Fresh Fruit Company here in Queens. I don\'92t know where all that talk about organized crime came from. The newspapers just make stuff up.\'94\par
\'93It\'92s terrible what they\'92ll do to sell papers,\'94 Jack said.\par
\'93The man that came this morning said that you got his body back,\'94 Imogene said.\par
\'93We believe so,\'94 Jack said. \'93That\'92s why we needed some blood from you to confirm it. Thank you for being cooperative.\'94\par
\'93I asked him why he didn\'92t want me to come down there and identify it like I did last time,\'94 Imogene said. \'93But he told me he didn\'92t know.\'94\par
Jack tried to think of a graceful way of explaining the identity problem, but he couldn\'92t think of any. \'93Some parts of the body are still missing,\'94 he said vaguely, hoping that Mrs. Franconi would be satisfied.\par
\'93Oh?\'94 Imogene commented.\par
\'93Let me tell you why I called,\'94 Jack said quickly. He was afraid that if Mrs. Franconi became offended, she might not be receptive to his question. \'93You told the investigator that your son\'92s health had improved after a trip. Do you remember saying that?\'94\par
\'93Of course,\'94 Imogene said.\par
\'93I was told you don\'92t know where he went,\'94 Jack said. \'93Is there any way you could find out?\'94\par
\'93I don\'92t think so,\'94 Imogene said. \'93He told me it had nothing to do with his work and that it was very private.\'94\par
\'93Do you remember when it was?\'94 Jack asked.\par
\'93Not exactly,\'94 Imogene said. \'93Maybe five or six weeks ago.\'94\par
\'93Was it in this country?\'94 Jack asked.\par
\'93I don\'92t know,\'94 Imogene said. \'93All he said was that it was very private.\'94\par
\'93If you find out where it was, would you give me a call back?\'94 Jack asked.\par
\'93I suppose,\'94 Imogene said.\par
\'93Thank you,\'94 Jack said.\par
\'93Wait,\'94 Imogene said. \'93I just remembered he did say something strange just before he left. He said that if he didn\'92t come back that he loved me very much.\'94\par
\'93Did that surprise you?\'94 Jack asked.\par
\'93Well, yes,\'94 Imogene said. \'93I thought that was a fine thing to say to your mother.\'94\par
Jack thanked Mrs. Franconi again and hung up the phone. Hardly had he had his hand off the receiver when it rang again. It was Ted Lynch.\par
\'93I think you\'92d better come up here,\'94 Ted said.\par
\'93I\'92m on my way,\'94 Jack said.\par
Jack found Ted sitting at his desk, literally scratching his head.\par
\'93If I didn\'92t know better I\'92d think you were trying to put one over on me,\'94 Ted spat. \'93Sit down!\'94\par
Jack sat. Ted was holding a ream of computer-generated paper plus a number of sheets of developed film with hundreds of small dark bands. Ted reached over and dropped the mass into Jack\'92s lap.\par
\'93What the hell\'92s this?\'94 Jack questioned. He picked up several of the celluloid sheets and held them up to the light.\par
Ted leaned over and with the eraser end of an old-fashioned wooden pencil pointed to the films. \'93These are the results of the DNA polymarker test.\'94 He fingered the computer printout. \'93And this mass of data compares the nucleotide sequences of the DQ alpha regions of the MHC.\'94\par
\'93Come on, Ted!\'94 Jack urged. \'93Talk English to me, would you please? You know I\'92m a babe in the woods when it comes to this stuff.\'94\par
\'93Fine,\'94 Ted exclaimed as if vexed. \'93The polymarker test shows that Franconi\'92s DNA and the DNA of the liver tissue you found inside him could not be any more different.\'94\par
\'93Hey, that\'92s good news,\'94 Jack said. \'93Then, it was a transplant.\'94\par
\'93I guess,\'94 Ted said without conviction. \'93But the sequence with the DQ alpha is identical, right down to the last nucleotide.\'94\par
\'93What does that mean?\'94 Jack asked.\par
Ted spread his hands like a supplicant and wrinkled his forehead. \'93I don\'92t know. I can\'92t explain it. Mathematically, it couldn\'92t happen. I mean the chances are so infinitesimally small, it\'92s beyond belief. We\'92re talking about an identical match of thousands upon thousands of base pairs even in areas of long repeats. Absolutely identical. That\'92s why we got the results that we did with the DQ alpha screen.\'94\par
\'93Well, the bottom line is that it was a transplant,\'94 Jack said. \'93That\'92s the issue here.\'94\par
\'93If pressed, I\'92d have to agree it was a transplant,\'94 Ted said. \'93But how they found a donor with the identical DQ alpha is beyond me. It\'92s the kind of coincidence that smacks of the supernatural.\'94\par
\'93What about the test with the mitochondrial DNA to confirm the floater is Franconi?\'94 Jack asked.\par
\'93Jeez, you give a guy an inch and he wants a mile,\'94 Ted complained. \'93We just got the blood, for crissake. You\'92ll have to wait on the results. After all, we turned the lab upside down to get what you got so quickly. Besides I\'92m more interested in this DQ alpha situation compared to the polymarker results. Something doesn\'92t jibe.\'94\par
\'93Well, don\'92t lose any sleep over it,\'94 Jack said. He stood up and gave Ted back all the material Ted had dumped in his lap. \'93I appreciate what you\'92ve done. Thanks! It\'92s the information I needed. And when the mitochondrial results are back, give me a call.\'94\par
Jack was elated by Ted\'92s results, and he wasn\'92t worried about the mitochondrial study. With the correlation of the X rays, he was already confident the floater and Franconi were one and the same.\par
Jack got on the elevator. Now that he\'92d documented that it had been a transplant, he was counting on Bart Arnold to come up with the answers to solve the rest of the mystery. As he descended, Jack found himself wondering about Ted\'92s emotional reaction to the DQ alpha results. Jack was aware that Ted didn\'92t get excited about too many things. Consequently, it had to be significant. Unfortunately, Jack didn\'92t know enough about the test to have much of an opinion. He vowed that when he had the chance he\'92d read up on it.\par
Jack\'92s elation was short-lived; it faded the moment he walked into Bart\'92s office. The forensic investigator was on the phone, but he shook his head the moment he caught sight of Jack. Jack interpreted the gesture as bad news. He sat down to wait.\par
\'93No luck?\'94 Jack asked as soon as Bart disconnected.\par
\'93I\'92m afraid not,\'94 Bart said. \'93I really expected UNOS to come through, and when they said that they had not provided a liver for Carlo Franconi and that he\'92d not even been on their waiting list, I knew the chances of tracing where he\'92d gotten the liver fell precipitously. Just now I was on the phone with Columbia-Presbyterian, and it wasn\'92t done there. So I\'92ve heard from just about every center doing liver transplants, and no one takes credit for Carlo Franconi.\'94\par
\'93This is crazy,\'94 Jack said. He told Bart that Ted\'92s findings confirmed that Franconi had had a transplant.\par
\'93I don\'92t know what to say,\'94 Bart commented.\par
\'93If someone didn\'92t get their transplant in North America or Europe, where could it have taken place?\'94 Jack asked.\par
Bart shrugged. \'93There are a few other possibilities. Australia, South Africa, even a couple of places in South America, but having talked to my contact at UNOS, I don\'92t think any of them are likely.\'94\par
\'93No kidding?\'94 Jack said. He was not hearing what he wanted to hear.\par
\'93It\'92s a mystery,\'94 Bart commented.\par
\'93Nothing about this case is easy,\'94 Jack complained as he got to his feet.\par
\'93I\'92ll keep at it,\'94 Bart offered.\par
\'93I\'92d appreciate it,\'94 Jack said.\par
Jack wandered out of the forensic area, feeling mildly depressed. He had the uncomfortable sensation that he was missing some major fact, but he had no idea what it could be or how to go about finding out what it was.\par
In the ID room he got himself another cup of coffee, which was more like sludge than a beverage by that time of the day. With cup in hand, he climbed the stairs to the lab.\par
\'93I ran your samples,\'94 John DeVries said. \'93They were negative for both cyclosporin A and FK506.\'94\par
Jack was astounded. All he could do was stare at the pale, gaunt face of the laboratory director. Jack didn\'92t know what was more surprising: the fact that John had already run the samples or that the results were negative.\par
\'93You must be joking,\'94 Jack managed to say.\par
\'93Hardly,\'94 John said. \'93It\'92s not my style.\'94\par
\'93But the patient had to be on immunosuppressants,\'94 Jack said. \'93He\'92d had a recent liver transplant. Is it possible you got a false negative?\'94\par
\'93We run controls as standard procedure,\'94 John said.\par
\'93I expected one or the other drug to be present,\'94 Jack said.\par
\'93I\'92m sorry that we don\'92t gear our results to your expectations,\'94 John said sourly. \'93If you\'92ll excuse me, I have work to do.\'94\par
Jack watched the laboratory director walk over to an instrument and make some adjustments. Then Jack turned and made his way out of the lab. Now he was more depressed. Ted Lynch\'92s DNA results and John DeVries\'92s drug assays were contradictory. If there\'92d been a transplant, Franconi had to be on either cyclosporin A or FK506. That was standard medical procedure.\par
Getting off the elevator on the fifth floor, he walked down to histology while trying to come up with some rational explanation for the facts he\'92d been given. Nothing came to mind.\par
\'93Well, if it isn\'92t the good doctor yet again,\'94 Maureen O\'92Conner said in her Irish brogue. \'93What is it? You only have one case? Is that why you are dogging us so?\'94\par
\'93I only have one that is driving me bananas,\'94 Jack said. \'93What\'92s the story with the slides?\'94\par
\'93There\'92s a few that are ready,\'94 Maureen said. \'93Do you want to take them or wait for the whole batch?\'94\par
\'93I\'92ll take what I can get,\'94 Jack said.\par
Maureen\'92s nimble fingers picked out a sampling of the sections that were dry and placed them in a microscopic slide holder. She handed the tray to Jack.\par
\'93Are there liver sections among these?\'94 Jack asked hopefully.\par
\'93I believe so,\'94 Maureen said. \'93One or two. The rest you\'92ll have later.\'94\par
Jack nodded and walked out. A few doors down the hall, he entered his office. Chet looked up from his work and smiled.\par
\'93Hey, sport, how\'92s it going?\'94 Chet said.\par
\'93Not so good,\'94 Jack said. He sat down and turned on his microscope light.\par
\'93Problems with the Franconi case?\'94 Chet asked.\par
Jack nodded. He began to hunt through the slides for liver sections. He only found one. \'93Everything about it is like squeezing water from a rock.\'94\par
\'93Listen, I\'92m glad you came back,\'94 Chet said. \'93I\'92m expecting a call from a doctor in North Carolina. I just want to find out if a patient had heart trouble. I have to duck out to get passport photos taken for my upcoming trip to India. Would you take the call for me?\'94\par
\'93Sure,\'94 Jack said. \'93What\'92s the patient\'92s name?\'94\par
\'93Clarence Potemkin,\'94 Chet said. \'93The folder is right here on my desk.\'94\par
\'93Fine,\'94 Jack said, while slipping the sole liver section onto his microscope\'92s stage. He ignored Chet as Chet got his coat from behind the door and left. Jack ran the microscopic objective down to the slide and was about to peer into the eyepieces, when he paused. Chet\'92s errand had started him thinking about international travel. If Franconi had gotten his transplant out of the country, which seemed increasingly probable, there might be a way to find out where he\'92d been.\par
Jack picked up his phone and called police headquarters. He asked for Lieutenant Detective Lou Soldano. He expected to have to leave a message and was pleasantly surprised to get the man himself.\par
\'93Hey, I\'92m glad you called,\'94 Lou said. \'93Remember what I told you this morning about the tip it was the Lucia people who stole Franconi\'92s remains from the morgue? We just got confirmation from another source. I thought you might like to know.\'94\par
\'93Interesting,\'94 Jack said. \'93Now I have a question for you.\'94\par
\'93Shoot,\'94 Lou said.\par
Jack outlined the reasons for his belief that Carlo Franconi might have traveled abroad for his liver transplant. He added that according to the man\'92s mother, he\'92d taken a trip to a supposed spa four to six weeks previously.\par
\'93What I want to know is, is there a way to find out by talking to Customs if Franconi left the country recently, and if so, where did he go?\'94\par
\'93Either Customs or the Immigration and Naturalization,\'94 Lou said. \'93Your best bet would be Immigration unless, of course, he brought back so much stuff he had to pay duty. Besides, I have a friend in Immigration. That way I can get the information much faster than going through the usual bureaucratic channels. Want me to check?\'94\par
\'93I\'92d love it,\'94 Jack said. \'93This case is bugging the hell out of me.\'94\par
\'93My pleasure,\'94 Lou said. \'93As I said this morning, I owe you.\'94\par
Jack hung up the phone with a tiny glimmer of hope that he\'92d thought of a new angle. Feeling a bit more optimistic, he leaned forward, looked into his microscope, and began to focus.\par
\par
\pard\qj Laurie\'92s day had not gone anything like she\'92d anticipated. She\'92d planned on doing only one autopsy but ended up doing two. And then George Fontworth ran into trouble with his multiple gunshot wound case, and Laurie volunteered to help him. Even with no lunch, Laurie didn\'92t get out of the pit until three.\par
\pard\fi283\qj After changing into her street clothes, Laurie was on her way up to her office when she caught sight of Marvin in the mortuary office. He\'92d just come on duty and was busy putting the office in order after the tumult of a normal day. Laurie made a detour and stuck her head in the door.\par
\'93We found Franconi\'92s X rays,\'94 she said. \'93And it turned out that floater that came in the other night was our missing man.\'94\par
\'93I saw it in the paper,\'94 Marvin said. \'93Far out.\'94\par
\'93The X rays made the identification,\'94 Laurie said. \'93So I\'92m extra glad you took them.\'94\par
\'93It\'92s my job,\'94 Marvin said.\par
\'93I wanted to apologize again for suggesting you didn\'92t take them,\'94 Laurie said.\par
\'93No problem,\'94 Marvin said.\par
Laurie got about four steps away, when she turned around and returned to the mortuary office. This time she entered and closed the door behind her.\par
Marvin looked at her questioningly.\par
\'93Would you mind if I asked you a question just between you and me?\'94 Laurie asked.\par
\'93I guess not,\'94 Marvin said warily.\par
\'93Obviously, I\'92ve been interested in how Franconi\'92s body was stolen from here,\'94 Laurie said. \'93That\'92s why I talked to you the afternoon before last. Remember?\'94\par
\'93Of course,\'94 Marvin said.\par
\'93I also came in that night and talked with Mike Passano,\'94 Laurie said.\par
\'93So I heard,\'94 Marvin said.\par
\'93I bet you did,\'94 Laurie said. \'93But believe me I wasn\'92t accusing Mike of anything.\'94\par
\'93I hear you,\'94 Marvin said. \'93He can be sensitive now and then.\'94\par
\'93I can\'92t figure out how the body was stolen,\'94 Laurie said. \'93Between Mike and security, there was always someone here.\'94\par
Marvin shrugged. \'93I don\'92t know, either,\'94 he said. \'93Believe me.\'94\par
\'93I understand,\'94 Laurie said. \'93I\'92m sure you would have said something to me if you had any suspicions. But that\'92s not what I wanted to ask. My feeling at this point is that there had to be some help from inside. Is there any employee here at the morgue that you think might have been involved in this somehow? That\'92s my question.\'94\par
Marvin thought for a minute and then shook his head. \'93I don\'92t think so.\'94\par
\'93It had to have happened on Mike\'92s shift,\'94 Laurie said. \'93The two drivers, Pete and Jeff, do you know them very well?\'94\par
\'93Nope,\'94 Marvin said. \'93I mean, I\'92ve seen them around and even talked with them a few times, but since we\'92re on different shifts, we don\'92t have a lot of con tact.\'94\par
\'93But you don\'92t have any reason to suspect them?\'94\par
\'93Nope, no more than anybody else,\'94 Marvin said.\par
\'93Thanks,\'94 Laurie said. \'93I hope my question didn\'92t make you feel uncomfortable.\'94\par
\'93No problem,\'94 Marvin said.\par
Laurie thought for a minute, while she absently chewed on her lower lip. She knew she was missing something. \'93I have an idea,\'94 she said suddenly. \'93Maybe you should describe to me the exact sequence you go through when a body leaves here.\'94\par
\'93You mean everything that happens?\'94 Marvin said.\par
\'93Please,\'94 Laurie said. \'93I mean, I have a general idea, but I don\'92t know the specifics.\'94\par
\'93Where do you want me to start?\'94 Marvin asked.\par
\'93Right from the beginning,\'94 Laurie said. \'93Right from the moment you get the call from the funeral home.\'94\par
\'93Okay,\'94 Marvin said. \'93The call comes in, and they say they\'92re from so-and-so funeral home and they want to do a pickup. So they give me the name and the accession number.\'94\par
\'93That\'92s it?\'94 Laurie asked. \'93Then you hang up.\'94\par
\'93No,\'94 Marvin said. \'93I put them on hold while I enter the accession number into the computer. I gotta make sure the body has been released by you guys and also find out where it is.\'94\par
\'93So then you go back to the phone and say what?\'94\par
\'93I say it\'92s okay,\'94 Marvin said. \'93I tell them I\'92ll have the body ready. I guess I usually ask when they think they\'92ll be here. I mean, no sense rushing around if they\'92re not going to be here for two hours or something.\'94\par
\'93Then what?\'94 Laurie said.\par
\'93I get the body and check the accession number,\'94 Marvin said. \'93Then I put it in the front of the walk-in cooler. We always put them in the same place. In fact, we line them up in the order we expect them to go out. It makes it easier for the drivers.\'94\par
\'93And then what happens?\'94 Laurie asked.\par
\'93Then they come,\'94 Marvin said with another shrug.\par
\'93And what happens when they arrive?\'94 Laurie asked.\par
\'93They come in here and we fill out a receipt,\'94 Marvin said. \'93It\'92s all got to be documented. I mean they have to sign to indicate they have accepted custody.\'94\par
\'93Okay,\'94 Laurie said. \'93And then you go back and get the body?\'94\par
\'93Yeah, or one of them gets it,\'94 Marvin said. \'93All of them have been in and out of here a million times.\'94\par
\'93Is there any final check?\'94 Laurie asked.\par
\'93You bet,\'94 Marvin said. \'93We always check the accession number one more time before they wheel the body out of here. We have to indicate that being done on the documents. It would be embarrassing if the drivers got back to the home and realized they had the wrong corpse.\'94\par
\'93Sounds like a good system,\'94 Laurie said, and she meant it. With so many checks it would be hard to subvert such a procedure.\par
\'93It\'92s been working for decades without a screwup,\'94 Marvin said. \'93Of course, the computer helps. Before that, all they had was the logbook.\'94\par
\'93Thanks, Marvin,\'94 Laurie said.\par
\'93Hey, no problem, Doc,\'94 Marvin said.\par
Laurie left the mortuary office. Before going up to her own she stopped off on the second floor to get a snack out of the vending machines in the lunch room. Reasonably fortified, she went up to the fifth floor. Seeing Jack\'92s office door ajar, she walked over and peeked in. Jack was at his microscope.\par
\'93Something interesting?\'94 she asked.\par
Jack looked up and smiled. \'93Very,\'94 he said. \'93Want to take a look?\'94\par
Laurie glanced into the eyepieces as Jack leaned to the side. \'93It looks like a tiny granuloma in a liver,\'94 she said.\par
\'93That\'92s right,\'94 Jack said. \'93It\'92s from one of those tiny pieces I was able to find of Franconi\'92s liver.\'94\par
\'93Hmmm,\'94 Laurie commented, continuing to look into the microscope. \'93That\'92s weird they would have used an infected liver for a transplant. You\'92d think they would have screened the donor better. Are there a lot of these tiny granulomas?\'94\par
\'93Maureen has only given me one slide of the liver so far,\'94 Jack said. \'93And that\'92s the only granuloma I found, so my guess would be that there aren\'92t a lot. But I did see one on the frozen section. Also on the frozen section were tiny collapsed cysts on the surface of the liver which would have been visible to the naked eye. The transplant team must have known and didn\'92t care.\'94\par
\'93At least there\'92s no general inflammation,\'94 Laurie said. \'93So the transplant was being tolerated pretty well.\'94\par
\'93Extremely well,\'94 Jack said. \'93Too well, but that\'92s another issue. What do you think that is under the pointer?\'94\par
Laurie played with the focus so that she could visually move up and down in the section. There were a few curious flecks of basophilic material. \'93I don\'92t know. I can\'92t even be sure it\'92s not artifact.\'94\par
\'93Don\'92t know, either,\'94 Jack said. \'93Unless it\'92s what stimulated the granuloma.\'94\par
\'93That\'92s a thought,\'94 Laurie said. She straightened up. \'93What did you mean by the liver being tolerated too well?\'94\par
\'93The lab reported that Franconi had not been taking any immunosuppressant drugs,\'94 Jack said. \'93That seems highly improbable since there is no general inflammation.\'94\par
\'93Are we sure it was a transplant?\'94 Laurie asked.\par
\'93Absolutely,\'94 Jack said. He summarized what Ted Lynch had reported to him.\par
Laurie was as puzzled as Jack. \'93Except for identical twins I can\'92t imagine two people\'92s DQ alpha sequences being exactly the same,\'94 she said.\par
\'93It sounds like you know more about it than I do,\'94 Jack said. \'93Until a couple of days ago, I\'92d never even heard of DQ alpha.\'94\par
\'93Have you made any headway as to where Franconi could have had this transplant?\'94 Laurie asked.\par
\'93I wish,\'94 Jack said. He then told Laurie about Bart\'92s vain efforts. Jack explained that he himself had spent a good portion of the previous night calling centers all over Europe.\par
\'93Good Lord!\'94 Laurie remarked.\par
\'93I\'92ve even enlisted Lou\'92s help,\'94 Jack said. \'93I found out from Franconi\'92s mother that he\'92d gone off to what she thought was a spa and came home a new man. I\'92m thinking that\'92s when he might have gotten the transplant. Unfortunately, she has no idea where he went. Lou\'92s checking Immigration to see if he\'92d gone out of the country.\'94\par
\'93If anyone can find out, Lou can,\'94 Laurie said.\par
\'93By the way,\'94 Jack said assuming a teasingly superior air. \'93Lou \'92fessed up that he was the source of the leak about Franconi to the newspapers.\'94\par
\'93I don\'92t believe it,\'94 Laurie said.\par
\'93I got it from the horse\'92s mouth,\'94 Jack said. \'93So I expect an abject apology.\'94\par
\'93You\'92ve got it,\'94 Laurie said. \'93I\'92m amazed. Did he give any reason?\'94\par
\'93He said they wanted to release the information right away to see if it would smoke out any more tips from informers. He said it worked to an extent. They got a tip which was later confirmed that Franconi\'92s body had been taken under orders from the Lucia crime family.\'94\par
\'93Good grief!\'94 Laurie said and shuddered. \'93This case is starting to remind me too much of the Cerino affair.\'94\par
\'93I know what you mean,\'94 Jack said. \'93Instead of eyes, it\'92s livers.\'94\par
\'93You don\'92t suppose there\'92s a private hospital here in the United States that\'92s doing undercover liver transplants, do you?\'94 Laurie asked.\par
\'93I can\'92t imagine,\'94 Jack said. \'93No doubt there could be big money involved, but there is the issue of supply. I mean, there\'92s seven thousand plus people in this country waiting for livers as it is. Few of these people have the money to make it worthwhile.\'94\par
\'93I wish I were as confident as you,\'94 Laurie said. \'93The profit motive has taken over American medicine by storm.\'94\par
\'93But the big money in medicine is in volume,\'94 Jack said. \'93There are too few wealthy people who need livers. The investment in the physical plant and the requisite secrecy wouldn\'92t pay off, especially without a supply of organs. You\'92d have to postulate some modern version of Burk and Hare, and although such a scenario might work in a B movie, in reality it would be too risky and uncertain. No businessman in his right mind would go for it, no matter how venal.\'94\par
\'93Maybe you have a point,\'94 Laurie said.\par
\'93I\'92m convinced there\'92s something else involved here,\'94 Jack said. \'93There are just too many unexplained facts from the DQ alpha nonsense to the fact that Franconi wasn\'92t taking any immunosuppressant drugs. We\'92re missing something: something key, something unexpected.\'94\par
\'93What an effort!\'94 Laurie exclaimed. \'93One thing is for sure, I\'92m glad I foisted this case onto you.\'94\par
\'93Thanks for nothing,\'94 Jack quipped. \'93It\'92s certainly a frustrating case. On a happier note, last night at basketball, Warren told me that Natalie has been asking about you. What do you say that we all get together this weekend for dinner and maybe a movie, provided they don\'92t have any plans?\'94\par
\'93I\'92d enjoy that very much,\'94 Laurie said. \'93I hope you told Warren that I was asking about them as well.\'94\par
\'93I did,\'94 Jack admitted. \'93Not to change the subject, but how was your day? Did you make any headway in figuring out how Franconi managed to go on his overnight? I mean, Lou telling us that a crime family was responsible isn\'92t telling us a whole bunch. We need specifics.\'94\par
\'93Unfortunately, no,\'94 Laurie admitted. \'93I was caught in the pit until just a little while ago. I\'92ve gotten nothing done that I\'92d planned.\'94\par
\'93Too bad,\'94 Jack said with a smile. \'93With my lack of progress, I might have to rely on you providing the breakthrough.\'94\par
After promises to talk with each other by phone that evening, specifically about the weekend plans, Laurie headed to her own office. With good intentions she sat down at her desk and started to go through the lab reports and other correspondence that had come in that day involving her uncompleted cases. But she found it difficult to concentrate.\par
Jack\'92s generosity in crediting her with providing the breakthrough in the Franconi case only made her feel guilty for not coming up with a working hypothesis about how Franconi\'92s body was taken. Seeing the effort Jack was expending on the case made her want to redouble her efforts.\par
Pulling out a fresh sheet of paper, Laurie began to write down everything Marvin had related. Her intuition told her that Franconi\'92s mysterious abduction had to involve the two bodies that went out the same night. And now that Lou had said the Lucia crime family was implicated, she was more convinced than ever that the Spoletto Funeral Home was somehow involved.\par
\par
\pard\qj Raymond replaced the phone and raised his eyes to Darlene who\'92d come into his study.\par
\pard\fi283\qj\'93Well?\'94 Darlene asked. She had her blond hair pulled back into a ponytail. She\'92d been working out on an exercise bike in the other room and was clothed in sexy workout gear.\par
Raymond leaned back in his desk chair and sighed. He even smiled. \'93Things seem to be working out,\'94 he said. \'93That was the GenSys operational officer up in Cambridge, Mass. The plane will be available tomorrow evening so I\'92ll be on my way to Africa. Of course, we\'92ll stop to refuel, but I don\'92t know where yet.\'94\par
\'93Can I come?\'94 Darlene asked hopefully.\par
\'93I\'92m afraid not, dear,\'94 Raymond said. He reached out and took her by the hand. He knew he\'92d been difficult over the previous couple of days and felt badly. He guided her around the desk and urged her to sit on his lap. As soon as she did, he was sorry. She was, after all, a big woman.\par
\'93With the patient and the surgical team, there\'92ll be too many people on the plane on the return trip,\'94 he managed, even though his face was becoming red.\par
Darlene sighed and pouted. \'93I never get to go anywhere.\'94\par
\'93Next time,\'94 Raymond croaked. He patted her on her back and eased her up into a standing position. \'93It\'92s just a short trip. There and back. It\'92s not going to be fun.\'94\par
With a sudden burst of tears Darlene fled from the room. Raymond considered following her to console her, but a glance at his desk clock changed his mind. It was after three and therefore after nine in Cogo. If he wanted to talk to Siegfried, he felt he\'92d better try now.\par
Raymond called the manager\'92s home. The housekeeper put Siegfried on the line.\par
\'93Things still going okay?\'94 Raymond asked expectantly.\par
\'93Perfectly,\'94 Siegfried said. \'93My last update on the patient\'92s condition was fine. He couldn\'92t be doing any better.\'94\par
\'93That\'92s reassuring,\'94 Raymond said.\par
\'93I suppose that means our harvest bonuses will be forthcoming,\'94 Siegfried said.\par
\'93Of course,\'94 Raymond said, although he knew there would be a delay. With the necessity of raising twenty thousand cash for Vinnie Dominick, bonuses would have to wait until the next initiation fee came in.\par
\'93What about the situation with Kevin Marshall?\'94 Raymond asked.\par
\'93Everything is back to normal,\'94 Siegfried said. \'93Except for one incident when they went back to the staging area around lunch time.\'94\par
\'93That hardly sounds normal,\'94 Raymond complained.\par
\'93Calm down,\'94 Siegfried said. \'93They only went back to look for Melanie Becket\'92s sunglasses. Nevertheless, they ended up getting fired at again by the soldiers I\'92d posted out there.\'94 Siegfried laughed heartily.\par
Raymond waited until Siegfried had calmed down.\par
\'93What\'92s so funny?\'94 Raymond asked.\par
\'93Those numbskull soldiers shot out Melanie\'92s rear window,\'94 Siegfried said. \'93It made her very angry, but it had the desired effect. Now I\'92m really sure they won\'92t be going out there again.\'94\par
\'93I should hope not,\'94 Raymond said.\par
\'93Besides, I had an opportunity to have a drink with the two women this afternoon,\'94 Siegfried said. \'93I have a feeling our nerdy researcher has something risque going on.\'94\par
\'93What are you talking about?\'94 Raymond asked.\par
\'93I don\'92t believe he\'92ll be having the time or the energy to worry about smoke from Isla Francesca,\'94 Siegfried said. \'93I think he\'92s got himself involved in a m\'e9nage \'e0 trois.\'94\par
\'93Seriously?\'94 Raymond asked. Such an idea seemed preposterous for the Kevin Marshall Raymond knew. In all of Raymond\'92s dealing with Kevin Marshall he\'92d never expressed the slightest interest in the opposite sex. The idea he\'92d have the inclination and stamina for one woman let alone two seemed ludicrous.\par
\'93That was the implication I got,\'94 Siegfried said. \'93You should have heard the two women carrying on about their cute researcher. That\'92s what they called him. And they were on their way to Kevin\'92s for a dinner party. That\'92s the first dinner party he\'92s ever had as far as I know, and I live right across from him.\'94\par
\'93I suppose we should be thankful,\'94 Raymond said.\par
\'93Envious is a better word,\'94 Siegfried said, with another burst of laughter that grated on Raymond\'92s nerves.\par
\'93I\'92ve called to say that I\'92ll be leaving here tomorrow evening,\'94 Raymond said. \'93I can\'92t say when I\'92ll arrive in Bata because I don\'92t know where we\'92ll refuel. I\'92ll have to call from the refueling stop or have the pilots radio ahead.\'94\par
\'93Anyone else coming with you?\'94 Siegfried asked.\par
\'93Not that I know of,\'94 Raymond said. \'93I doubt it because we\'92ll be almost full on the way back.\'94\par
\'93We\'92ll be waiting for you,\'94 Siegfried said.\par
\'93See you soon,\'94 Raymond said.\par
\'93Maybe you could bring our bonuses with you,\'94 Siegfried suggested.\par
\'93I\'92ll see if it can be arranged,\'94 Raymond said.\par
He hung up the phone and smiled. He shook his head in amazement concerning Kevin Marshall\'92s behavior. \'93You never know!\'94 Raymond commented out loud as he got up and started from the room. He wanted to find Darlene and cheer her up. He thought that maybe as a consolation they should go out to dinner at her favorite restaurant.\par
\par
\pard\qj Jack had scoured the single liver section Maureen had given him from one end to the other. He\'92d even used his oil-immersion lens to stare vainly at the basophilic specks in the heart of the tiny granuloma. He still had no idea whether they were a true finding, and if they were, what they were.\par
\pard\fi283\qj Having exhausted his histological and pathological knowledge with respect to the slide, he was about to take it over to the pathology department at New York University Hospital when his phone rang. It was Chet\'92s call from North Carolina, so Jack asked the appropriate question and wrote down the response. Hanging up the phone, Jack got his jacket from the file cabinet. With the jacket on, he picked up the microscopic slide only to have the phone ring again. This time it was Lou Soldano.\par
\'93Bingo!\'94 Lou said cheerfully. \'93I got some good news for you.\'94\par
\'93I\'92m all ears,\'94 Jack said. He slipped out of his bomber jacket and sat down.\par
\'93I put in a call to my friend in Immigration, and he just phoned me back,\'94 Lou said. \'93When I asked him your question, he told me to hang on the line. I could even hear him entering the name into the computer. Two seconds later, he had the info. Carlo Franconi entered the country exactly thirty-seven days ago on January twenty-ninth at Teterboro in New Jersey.\'94\par
\'93I\'92ve never heard of Teterboro,\'94 Jack said.\par
\'93It\'92s a private airport,\'94 Lou said. \'93It\'92s for general aviation, but there\'92s lot\'92s of fancy corporate jets out there because of the field\'92s proximity to the city.\'94\par
\'93Was Carlo Franconi on a corporate jet?\'94 Jack asked.\par
\'93I don\'92t know,\'94 Lou said. \'93All I got is the plane\'92s call letters or numbers or whatever they call it. You know, the numbers and letters on the airplane\'92s tail. Let\'92s see, I got it right here. It was N69SU.\'94\par
\'93Was there any indication where the plane had come from?\'94 Jack asked as he wrote down the alphanumeric characters and the date.\par
\'93Oh yeah,\'94 Lou said. \'93That\'92s gotta be filed. The plane came from Lyon, France.\'94\par
\'93Nah, it couldn\'92t have,\'94 Jack said.\par
\'93That\'92s what\'92s in the computer,\'94 Lou said. \'93Why don\'92t you think it\'92s correct?\'94\par
\'93Because I talked with the French organ allocation organization early this morning,\'94 Jack said. \'93They had no record of an American with the name of Franconi, and they categorically denied they\'92d be transplanting an American since they have a long waiting list for French citizens.\'94\par
\'93The information that Immigration has must correlate with the flight plan filed with both the FAA and the European equivalent,\'94 Lou said. \'93At least that\'92s how I understand it.\'94\par
\'93Do you think your friend in Immigration has a contact in France?\'94 Jack asked.\par
\'93It wouldn\'92t surprise me,\'94 Lou said. \'93Those upper-echelon guys have to cooperate with each other. I can ask him. Why would you like to know?\'94\par
\'93If Franconi was in France I\'92d like to find out the day he arrived,\'94 Jack said. \'93And I\'92d like to know any other information the French might have on where he went in the country. They keep close tabs on most non-European foreigners through their hotels.\'94\par
\'93Okay, let me see what I can do,\'94 Lou said. \'93Let me call him, and I\'92ll call you back.\'94\par
\'93One other thing,\'94 Jack said. \'93How can we find out who owns N69SU?\'94\par
\'93That\'92s easy,\'94 Lou said. \'93All you have to do is call the FAA Control Aviation Center in Oklahoma City. Anybody can do it, but I\'92ve got a friend there, too.\'94\par
\'93Jeez, you have friends in all the convenient places,\'94 Jack remarked.\par
\'93It comes with the territory,\'94 Lou said. \'93We do favors for each other all the time. If you have to wait for everything to go through channels, nothing gets done.\'94\par
\'93It\'92s certainly convenient for me to take advantage of your web of contacts,\'94 Jack said.\par
\'93So you want me to call my friend at the FAA?\'94 Lou asked.\par
\'93I\'92ll be much obliged,\'94 Jack said.\par
\'93Hey, it\'92s my pleasure,\'94 Lou said. \'93I have a feeling that the more I help you the more I\'92m helping myself. I\'92d like nothing better than to have this case solved. It might save my job.\'94\par
\'93I\'92m leaving my office to run over to the University Hospital,\'94 Jack said. \'93What if I call you back in a half hour or so?\'94\par
\'93Perfect,\'94 Lou said before disconnecting.\par
Jack shook his head. Like everything else with this case, the information he\'92d gotten from Lou was both surprising and confusing. France probably was the last country Jack suspected Franconi to have visited.\par
After donning his coat for the second time, Jack left his office. Given the proximity of the University Hospital, he didn\'92t bother with his bike. It only took ten minutes by foot.\par
Inside the busy medical center, Jack took the elevator up to the pathology department. He was hoping that Dr. Malovar would be available. Peter Malovar was a giant in the field, and even at the age of eighty-two he was one of the sharpest pathologists Jack had ever met. Jack made it a point to go to seminars Dr. Malovar offered once a month. So when Jack had a question about pathology, he didn\'92t go to Bingham because Bingham\'92s strong point was forensics, not general pathology. Instead, Jack went to Dr. Malovar.\par
\'93The professor\'92s in his lab as usual,\'94 the harried pathology department secretary said. \'93You know where it is?\'94\par
Jack nodded and walked down to the aged, frosted-glass door which led to what was known as \'93Malovar\'92s lair.\'94 Jack knocked. When there was no response, he tried the door. It was unlocked. Inside, he found Dr. Malovar bent over his beloved microscope. The elderly man looked a little like Einstein with wild gray hair and a full mustache. He also had kyphotic posture as if his body had been specifically designed to bend over and peer into a microscope. Of his five senses only his hearing had deteriorated over the years.\par
The professor greeted Jack cursorily while hungrily eyeing the slide in his hand. He loved people to bring him problematic cases, a fact that Jack had taken advantage of on many occasion.\par
Jack tried to give a little history of the case as he passed the slide to the professor, but Dr. Malovar lifted his hand to quiet him. Dr. Malovar was a true detective who didn\'92t want anyone else\'92s impressions to influence his own. The aged professor replaced the slide he\'92d been studying with Jack\'92s. Without a word, he scanned it for all of one minute.\par
Raising his head, Dr. Malovar put a drop of oil on the slide and switched to his oil-immersion lens for higher magnification. Once again, he examined the slide for only a matter of seconds.\par
Dr. Malovar looked up at Jack. \'93Interesting!\'94 he said, which was a high compliment coming from him. Because of his hearing problem, he spoke loudly. \'93There\'92s a small granuloma of the liver as well as the cicatrix of another. Looking at the granuloma, I think I might be seeing some merozoites, but I can\'92t be sure.\'94\par
Jack nodded. He assumed that Dr. Malovar was referring to the tiny basophilic flecks Jack had seen in the core of the granuloma.\par
Dr. Malovar reached for his phone. He called a colleague and asked him to come over for a moment. Within minutes, a tall, thin, overly serious, African-American man in a long white coat appeared. Dr. Malovar introduced him as Dr. Colin Osgood, chief of parasitology.\par
\'93What\'92s your opinion, Colin?\'94 Dr. Malovar asked as he gestured toward his microscope.\par
Dr. Osgood looked at the slide for a few seconds longer than Dr. Malovar had before responding. \'93Definitely parasitic,\'94 he intoned with his eyes still glued to the eye pieces. \'93Those are merozoites, but I don\'92t recognize them. It\'92s either a new species or a parasite not seen in humans. I recommend that Dr. Lander Hammersmith view it and render his opinion.\'94\par
\'93Good idea,\'94 Dr. Malovar said. He looked at Jack. \'93Would you mind leaving this overnight? I\'92ll have Dr. Hammersmith view it in the morning.\'94\par
\'93Who is Dr. Hammersmith?\'94 Jack asked.\par
\'93He\'92s a veterinary pathologist,\'94 Dr. Osgood said.\par
\'93Fine by me,\'94 Jack said agreeably. Having the slide reviewed by a veterinary pathologist was something he\'92d not thought of.\par
After thanking both men, Jack went back out to the secretary and asked if he could use a phone. The secretary directed him to an empty desk and told him to push nine for an outside line. Jack called Lou at police headquarters.\par
\'93Hey, glad you called,\'94 Lou said. \'93I think I\'92m getting some interesting stuff here. First of all, the plane is quite a plane. It\'92s a G4. Does that mean anything to you?\'94\par
\'93I don\'92t think so,\'94 Jack said. From Lou\'92s tone it sounded as if it should have.\par
\'93It stands for Gulfstream 4,\'94 Lou explained. \'93It\'92s what you would call the Rolls Royce of the corporate jet. It\'92s like twenty million bucks.\'94\par
\'93I\'92m impressed,\'94 Jack said.\par
\'93You should be,\'94 Lou said. \'93Okay, let\'92s see what else I learned. Ah, here it is: The plane is owned by Alpha Aviation out of Reno, Nevada. Ever hear of them?\'94\par
\'93Nope,\'94 Jack said. \'93Have you?\'94\par
\'93Not me,\'94 Lou said. \'93Must be a leasing organization. Let\'92s see, what else? Oh, yeah! This might be the most interesting. My friend from Immigration called his counterpart in France at his home, if you can believe it, and asked about Carlo Franconi\'92s recent French holiday. Apparently, this French bureaucrat can access the Immigration mainframe from his own PC, because guess what?\'94\par
\'93I\'92m on pins and needles,\'94 Jack said.\par
\'93Franconi never visited France!\'94 Lou said. \'93Not unless he had a fake passport and fake name. There\'92s no record of his entering or departing.\'94\par
\'93So what\'92s this about the plane incontrovertibly coming from Lyon, France?\'94 Jack demanded.\par
\'93Hey, don\'92t get testy,\'94 Lou said.\par
\'93I\'92m not,\'94 Jack said. \'93I was only responding to your point that the flight plan and the Immigration information had to correlate.\'94\par
\'93They do!\'94 Lou said. \'93Saying the plane came from Lyon, France, doesn\'92t mean anybody or everybody got out. It could have refueled for all I know.\'94\par
\'93Good point,\'94 Jack said. \'93I didn\'92t think of that. How can we find out?\'94\par
\'93I suppose I can call my friend back at the FAA,\'94 Lou said.\par
\'93Great,\'94 Jack said. \'93I\'92m heading back to my office at the morgue. You want me to call you or you call me?\'94\par
\'93I\'92ll call you,\'94 Lou said.\par
\par
\pard\qj After Laurie had written down all that she could remember from her conversation with Marvin concerning how bodies were picked up by funeral homes, she\'92d put the paper aside and ignored it while she did some other busy work. A half hour later, she picked it back up.\par
\pard\fi283\qj With her mind clear, she tried to read it with fresh eyes. On the second read-through, something jumped out at her: namely, how many times the term \'93accession number\'94 appeared. Of course, she wasn\'92t surprised. After all, the accession number was to a body what a Social Security number was to a living individual. It was a form of identification that allowed the morgue to keep track of the thousands of bodies and consequent paperwork that passed through its portals. Whenever a body arrived at the medical examiner\'92s office, the first thing that happened was that it was given an accession number. The second thing that happened was that a tag with the number was tied around the big toe.\par
Looking at the word \'93accession,\'94 Laurie realized to her surprise that if asked she wouldn\'92t have been able to define it. It was a word she\'92d just accepted and used on a daily basis. Every laboratory slip and report, every X ray film, every investigator\'92s report, every document intramurally had the accession number. In many ways, it was more important than the victim\'92s name.\par
Taking her American Heritage dictionary from its shelf, Laurie looked up the word \'93accession.\'94 As she began reading the definitions, none of them made any sense in the context of the word\'92s use at the morgue, until the next to last entry. There it was defined as \'93admittance.\'94 In other words, the accession number was just another way of saying admittance number.\par
Laurie searched for the accession numbers and names of the bodies that had been picked up during the night shift of March fourth when Franconi\'92s body disappeared. She found the piece of scratch paper beneath a slide tray. On it was written: Dorothy Kline #101455 and Frank Gleason #100385.\par
Thanks to her musing about accession numbers, Laurie noticed something she\'92d not paid any attention to before. The fact that the accession numbers differed by over a thousand! That was strange because the numbers were given out sequentially. Knowing the approximate volume of bodies processed through the morgue, Laurie estimated that there must have been several weeks separation between the arrivals of these two individuals.\par
The time differential was strange since bodies rarely stayed at the morgue more than a couple of days, so Laurie keyed Frank Gleason\'92s accession number into her computer terminal. His was the body picked up by the Spoletto Funeral Home.\par
What popped up on the screen surprised her.\par
\'93Good grief!\'94 Laurie exclaimed.\par
\par
\pard\qj Lou was having a great time. Contrary to the general public\'92s romantic image of detective work, actual gumshoeing was an exhausting, thankless task. What Lou was doing now, namely sitting in the comfort of his office and making productive telephone calls, was both entertaining and fulfilling. It was also nice to say hello to old acquaintances.\par
\pard\fi283\qj\'93My word, Soldano!\'94 Mark Servert commented. Mark was Lou\'92s contact at the FAA in Oklahoma City. \'93I don\'92t hear from you for a year and then twice in the same day. This must be some case.\'94\par
\'93It\'92s a corker,\'94 Lou said. \'93And I have a follow-up question. We found out that the G4 plane I called you about earlier had flown from Lyon, France, to Teterboro, New Jersey, on January twenty-ninth. However, the guy we\'92re interested in didn\'92t pass through French Immigration. So, we\'92re wondering if it\'92s possible to find out where N69SU came from before it landed in Lyon.\'94\par
\'93Now that\'92s a tricky question,\'94 Mark said. \'93I know the ICAO\~.\~.\~.\'94\par
\'93Wait a second,\'94 Lou interrupted. \'93Keep the acronyms to a minimum. What\'92s the ICAO?\'94\par
\'93International Civil Aviation Organization,\'94 Mark said. \'93I know they file all flight plans in and out of Europe.\'94\par
\'93Perfect,\'94 Lou said. \'93Anybody there you can call?\'94\par
\'93There\'92s someone I can call,\'94 Mark said. \'93But it wouldn\'92t do you much good. The ICAO shreds all their files after fifteen days. It\'92s not stored.\'94\par
\'93Wonderful,\'94 Lou commented sarcastically.\par
\'93The same goes for the European Air Traffic Control Center in Brussels,\'94 Mark said. \'93There\'92s just too much material, considering all the commercial flights.\'94\par
\'93So, there\'92s no way,\'94 Lou remarked.\par
\'93I\'92m thinking,\'94 Mark said.\par
\'93You want to call me back?\'94 Lou said. \'93I\'92ll be here for another hour or so.\'94\par
\'93Yeah, let me do that,\'94 Mark said.\par
Lou was about to hang up when he heard Mark yell his name.\par
\'93I just thought of something else,\'94 Mark said. \'93There\'92s an organization called Central Flow Management with offices in both Paris and Brussels. They\'92re the ones who provide the slot times for takeoffs and landings. They handle all of Europe except for Austria and Slovenia. Who knows why those countries aren\'92t involved? So, if N69SU came from anyplace other than Austria or Slovenia, their flight plan should be on file.\'94\par
\'93Do you know anybody in that organization?\'94 Lou asked.\par
\'93No, but I know somebody who does,\'94 Mark said. \'93Let me see if I can find out for you.\'94\par
\'93Hey, I appreciate it,\'94 Lou said.\par
\'93No problem,\'94 Mark said.\par
Lou hung up the phone and then drummed his pencil on the surface of his scarred and battle-worn gray-metal desk. There were innumerable burn marks where he\'92d left smoldering cigarette butts. He was thinking about Alpha Aviation and wondering how to run down the organization.\par
First, he tried telephone information in Reno. There was no listing for Alpha Aviation. Lou wasn\'92t surprised. Next, he called the Reno police department. He explained who he was and asked to be connected to his equivalent, the head of Homicide. His name was Paul Hersey.\par
After a few minutes of friendly banter, Lou gave Paul a thumbnail sketch of the Franconi case. Then he asked about Alpha Aviation.\par
\'93Never heard of them,\'94 Paul said.\par
\'93The FAA said it was out of Reno, Nevada,\'94 Lou said.\par
\'93That\'92s because Nevada\'92s an easy state to incorporate in,\'94 Paul explained. \'93And here in Reno we\'92ve got a slew of high-priced law firms who spend their time doing nothing else.\'94\par
\'93What\'92s your suggestion about getting the lowdown on the organization?\'94 Lou asked.\par
\'93Call the Office of the Nevada Secretary of State in Carson City,\'94 Paul said. \'93If Alpha Aviation is incorporated in Nevada, it will be on public record. Want us to call for you?\'94\par
\'93I\'92ll call,\'94 Lou said. \'93At this point, I\'92m not even sure what I want to know.\'94\par
\'93We can at least give you the number,\'94 Paul said. He went off the line for a moment, and Lou could hear him bark an order to an underling. A moment later, he was back and gave Lou the telephone number. Then he added: \'93They should be helpful, but if you have any trouble, call me back. And if you need any assistance in Carson City for whatever reason call Todd Arronson. He\'92s head of Homicide down there, and he\'92s a good guy.\'94\par
A few minutes later Lou was on the line with the Office of the Nevada Secretary of State. An operator connected him to a clerk, who couldn\'92t have been nicer or more cooperative. Her name was Brenda Whitehall.\par
Lou explained that he was interested to find out all he could about Alpha Aviation out of Reno, Nevada.\par
\'93Just a moment, please,\'94 Brenda said. Lou could hear the woman typing the name onto a keyboard. \'93Okay, here it is,\'94 she added. \'93Hang on and let me pull the folder.\'94\par
Lou lifted his feet up onto his desk and leaned back in his chair. He felt an almost irresistible urge to light up, but he fought it.\par
\'93I\'92m back,\'94 Brenda said. Lou could hear the rustle of papers. \'93Now what is it that you want to know?\'94\par
\'93What do you have?\'94 Lou asked.\par
\'93I have the Articles of Incorporation,\'94 Brenda said. There was a short period of silence while she read, then she added: \'93It\'92s a limited partnership and the general partner is Alpha Management.\'94\par
\'93What does that mean in plain English?\'94 Lou asked. \'93I\'92m not a lawyer or a businessman.\'94\par
\'93It simply means that Alpha Management is the corporation that runs the limited partnership,\'94 Brenda said patiently.\par
\'93Does it have any people\'92s names?\'94 Lou asked.\par
\'93Of course,\'94 Brenda said. \'93The Articles of Incorporation have to have the names and addresses of the directors, the registered agent for service of process, and the officers of the corporation.\'94\par
\'93That sounds encouraging,\'94 Lou said. \'93Could you give them to me?\'94\par
Lou could hear the sound of rustling papers.\par
\'93Hmmmm,\'94 Brenda commented. \'93Actually, in this instance there\'92s only one name and address.\'94\par
\'93One person is wearing all those hats?\'94\par
\'93According to this document,\'94 Brenda said.\par
\'93What\'92s the name and address?\'94 Lou asked. He reached for a piece of paper.\par
\'93It\'92s Samuel Hartman of the firm, Wheeler, Hartman, Gottlieb, and Sawyer. Their address is Eight Rodeo Drive, Reno.\'94\par
\'93That sounds like a law firm,\'94 Lou said.\par
\'93It is,\'94 Brenda said. \'93I recognize the name.\'94\par
\'93That\'92s no help!\'94 Lou said. He knew that the chances of getting any information out of a law firm were unlikely.\par
\'93A lot of Nevada corporations are set up like this,\'94 Brenda explained. \'93But let\'92s see if there are any amendments.\'94\par
Lou was already thinking of calling Paul back to get the rundown on Samuel Hartman, when Brenda made a murmur of discovery.\par
\'93There are amendments,\'94 she said. \'93At the first board meeting of Alpha Management, Mr. Hartman resigned as president and secretary. In his place Frederick Rouse was appointed.\'94\par
\'93Is there an address for Mr. Rouse?\'94 Lou asked.\par
\'93There is,\'94 Brenda said. \'93His title is Chief Financial Officer of the GenSys Corporation. The address is 150 Kendall Square, Cambridge, Massachusetts.\'94\par
Lou got all the information written down and thanked Brenda. He was particularly appreciative because he couldn\'92t imagine getting the same service from his own Secretary of State\'92s Office in Albany.\par
Lou was about to call Jack to give him the information about the ownership of the plane, when the phone literally rang under his hand. It was Mark Servert calling back already.\par
\'93You are in luck,\'94 Mark said. \'93The fellow I\'92m acquainted with who knows people in the Central Flow Management organization in Europe happened to be on the job when I called him. In fact, he\'92s in your neck of the woods. He\'92s out at Kennedy Airport, helping direct air traffic across the north Atlantic. He talks to these Central Flow Management people all the time, so he slipped in a query about N69SU on January twenty-ninth. Apparently, it popped right up on the screen. N69SU flew into Lyon from Bata, Equatorial Guinea.\'94\par
\'93Whoa!\'94 Lou said. \'93Where\'92s that?\'94\par
\'93Beats me,\'94 Mark said. \'93Without looking at a map, I\'92d guess West Africa.\'94\par
\'93Curious.\'94 Lou said.\par
\'93It\'92s also curious that as soon as the plane touched down in Lyon, France, it radioed to obtain a slot time to depart for Teterboro, New Jersey,\'94 Mark said. \'93Near as I can figure, it just sat on the runway until it got clearance.\'94\par
\'93Maybe it refueled,\'94 Lou offered.\par
\'93Could be,\'94 Mark said. \'93Even so, I would have expected them to have filed a through-flight plan with a stop in Lyon, rather than two separate flight plans. I mean, they could have gotten hung up in Lyon for hours. It was taking a chance.\'94\par
\'93Maybe they just changed their minds,\'94 Lou said.\par
\'93It\'92s possible,\'94 Mark agreed.\par
\'93Or maybe they didn\'92t want anyone knowing they were coming from Equatorial Guinea,\'94 Lou suggested.\par
\'93Now, that\'92s an idea that wouldn\'92t have crossed my mind,\'94 Mark admitted. \'93I suppose that\'92s why you\'92re an engaging detective, and I\'92m a boring FAA bureaucrat.\'94\par
Lou laughed. \'93Engaging I\'92m not. On the contrary, I\'92m afraid this job has made me cynical and suspicious.\'94\par
\'93It\'92s better than being boring,\'94 Mark said.\par
Lou thanked his friend for his help, and after they exchanged the usual well-meaning promises to get together, they hung up.\par
For a few minutes, Lou sat and marveled at why a twenty-million-dollar airplane was carrying a midlevel crime boss from Queens, New York, from some African country Lou had never heard of. Such a third-world backwater certainly wasn\'92t a medical mecca where a person would go to have sophisticated surgery like a liver transplant.\par
\par
\pard\qj After entering Frank Gleason\'92s accession number into the computer, Laurie sat pondering the apparent discrepancy for some time. She\'92d tried to imagine what the information meant in terms of the Franconi body disappearance. Slowly, an idea took root.\par
\pard\fi283\qj Suddenly pushing back from her desk, Laurie headed to the morgue level to look for Marvin. He wasn\'92t in the mortuary office. She found him by stepping into the walk-in cooler. He was busy moving the gurneys around to prepare for body pickups.\par
The moment Laurie entered the cooler, she flashed on the horrid experience she\'92d had during the Cerino affair inside the walk-in unit. The memory made her distinctly uncomfortable, and she decided against attempting to have a conversation with Marvin while inside. Instead, she asked him to meet her back in the mortuary office when he was finished.\par
Five minutes later, Marvin appeared. He plopped a sheaf of papers on the desk and then went to a sink in the corner to wash his hands.\par
\'93Everything in order?\'94 Laurie asked, just to make conversation.\par
\'93I think so,\'94 Marvin said. He came to the desk and sat down. He began arranging the documents in the order that the bodies were to be picked up.\par
\'93After talking with you earlier, I learned something quite surprising,\'94 Laurie said, getting to the point of her visit.\par
\'93Like what?\'94 Marvin said. He finished arranging the papers and sat back.\par
\'93I entered Frank Gleason\'92s accession number into the computer,\'94 Laurie said. \'93And I found out that his body had come into the morgue over two weeks ago. There was no name associated with it. It was an unidentified corpse!\'94\par
\'93No shit!\'94 Marvin exclaimed. Then realizing what he\'92d said, he added: \'93I mean, I\'92m surprised.\'94\par
\'93So was I,\'94 Laurie said. \'93I tried to call Dr. Besserman, who\'92d done the original autopsy. I wanted to ask if the body had been recently identified as Frank Gleason, but he\'92s out of the office. Do you think it was surprising that Mike Passano didn\'92t know the body was still labeled in the computer as an unidentified corpse?\'94\par
\'93Not really,\'94 Marvin said. \'93I\'92m not sure I would have, either. I mean, you enter the accession number just to find out if the body is released. You don\'92t really worry too much about the name.\'94\par
\'93That was the impression you gave me earlier,\'94 Laurie said. \'93There was also something else you said that I\'92ve been mulling over. You said that sometimes you don\'92t get the body yourself but rather one of the funeral home people does.\'94\par
\'93Sometimes,\'94 Marvin said. \'93But it only happens if two people come and if they\'92ve been here lots of times so they know the process. It\'92s just a way of speeding things up. One of them goes to the cooler to get the body while me and the other guy finish the documents.\'94\par
\'93How well do you know Mike Passano?\'94 Laurie asked.\par
\'93As well as I know most of the other techs,\'94 Marvin said.\par
\'93You and I have known each other for six years,\'94 Laurie said. \'93I think of us as friends.\'94\par
\'93Yeah, I suppose,\'94 Marvin said warily.\par
\'93I\'92d like you to do something for me as a friend,\'94 Laurie said. \'93But only if it doesn\'92t make you feel uncomfortable.\'94\par
\'93Like what?\'94 Marvin said.\par
\'93I\'92d like you to call Mike Passano and tell him that I found out that one of the bodies that he sent out the night Franconi disappeared was an unidentified corpse.\'94\par
\'93That\'92s strange, man!\'94 Marvin said. \'93Why would I be calling him rather than just waiting for him to come on duty?\'94\par
\'93You can act like you just heard it, which is the case,\'94 Laurie said. \'93And you can say that you thought he should know right away since he was on duty that night.\'94\par
\'93I don\'92t know, man,\'94 Marvin said unconvinced.\par
\'93The key thing is that coming from you, it won\'92t be confrontational,\'94 Laurie said. \'93If I call, he\'92ll think I\'92m accusing him, and I\'92m interested to hear his reaction without his feeling defensive. But more important, I\'92d like you to ask him if there were two people from Spoletto Funeral Home that night, and if there were two, whether he can remember who actually went to get the body.\'94\par
\'93That\'92s like setting him up, man,\'94 Marvin complained.\par
\'93I don\'92t see it that way,\'94 Laurie said. \'93If anything, it gives him a chance to clear himself. You see, I think the Spoletto people took Franconi.\'94\par
\'93I don\'92t feel comfortable calling him,\'94 Marvin said. \'93He\'92s going to know something is up. Why don\'92t you call him yourself, you know what I\'92m saying?\'94\par
\'93I already told you, I think he\'92ll be too defensive,\'94 Laurie said. \'93Last time he was defensive when I asked him purely vague questions. But okay, if you feel uncomfortable, I don\'92t want you to do it. Instead, I want you to go on a little hunt with me.\'94\par
\'93Now what?\'94 Marvin asked. His patience was wearing thin.\par
\'93Can you produce a list of all the refrigerator compartments that are occupied at the moment?\'94 Laurie asked.\par
\'93Sure, that\'92s easy,\'94 Marvin said.\par
\'93Please,\'94 Laurie said, while gesturing towards Marvin\'92s computer terminal. \'93While you\'92re at it, make two copies.\'94\par
Marvin shrugged and sat down. Using a relatively rapid hunt-and-peck style, he directed the computer to produce the list Laurie wanted. He handed the two sheets to her the moment they came out of the printer.\par
\'93Excellent,\'94 Laurie said, glancing at the sheets. \'93Come on!\'94 As she left the mortuary office, she waved over her shoulder. Marvin followed at her heels.\par
They walked down the stained cement corridor to the giant island that dominated the morgue. On opposite sides were the banks of refrigerated compartments used to store the bodies before autopsy.\par
Laurie handed one of the lists to Marvin.\par
\'93I want to search every compartment that is not occupied,\'94 Laurie said. \'93You take this side and I\'92ll take the other.\'94\par
Marvin rolled his eyes but took the list. He started opening the compartments, peering inside, then slamming the doors. Laurie went around to the other side of the island and did the same.\par
\'93Uh-oh!\'94 Marvin intoned after five minutes.\par
Laurie paused. \'93What is it?\'94\par
\'93You\'92d better come over here,\'94 Marvin said.\par
Laurie walked around the island. Marvin was standing at the far end of the island, scratching his head while staring at his list. In front of him was an open refrigerated compartment.\par
\'93This one is supposed to be empty,\'94 Marvin said.\par
Laurie glanced within and felt her pulse race. Inside, was a naked male corpse with no tag on its big toe. The number of the compartment was ninety-four. It wasn\'92t too far away from number one eleven, where Franconi was supposed to have been.\par
Marvin slid out the tray. It rattled on its ball bearings in the stillness of the deserted morgue. The body was a middle-aged male with signs of extensive trauma to the legs and torso.\par
\'93Well, this explains it,\'94 Laurie said. Her voice reflected an improbable mixture of triumph, anger, and fear. \'93It\'92s the unidentified corpse. He\'92d been a hit-and-run accident on the FDR Drive.\'94\par
\par
\pard\qj Jack stepped off the elevator and could hear a phone ringing insistently. As he proceeded down the hall he became progressively aware it had to be his phone, especially since his office was the only one with an open door.\par
\pard\fi283\qj Jack picked up speed and then almost missed his door as he slid on the vinyl flooring. He snapped the phone off the hook just in time. It was Lou.\par
\'93Where the hell have you been?\'94 Lou complained.\par
\'93I got stuck over at the University Hospital,\'94 Jack said. After Jack had last talked with Lou, Dr. Malovar had appeared and had him look at some forensic slides for him. So soon on the heels of his consulting Malovar, Jack didn\'92t feel he could refuse.\par
\'93I\'92ve been calling every fifteen minutes,\'94 Lou remarked.\par
\'93Sorry,\'94 Jack said.\par
\'93I\'92ve got some surprising information that I\'92ve been dying to give you,\'94 Lou said. \'93This is one weird case.\'94\par
\'93That\'92s not telling me anything I didn\'92t already know,\'94 Jack said. \'93What did you learn?\'94\par
Movement out of the corner of Jack\'92s eye attracted his attention. Turning his head, he saw Laurie standing in the doorway. She did not look normal. Her eyes were blazing, her mouth was set in an angry grimace, and her skin was the color of ivory.\par
\'93Wait a sec!\'94 Jack said, interrupting Lou. \'93Laurie, what the hell is the matter?\'94\par
\'93I have to talk with you,\'94 Laurie sputtered.\par
\'93Sure,\'94 Jack said. \'93But could it wait for two minutes?\'94 He pointed at the phone to indicate that he was talking with someone.\par
\'93Now!\'94 Laurie barked.\par
\'93Okay, okay,\'94 Jack repeated. It was clear to him she was as tense as a piano wire about to snap.\par
\'93Listen, Lou,\'94 Jack said into the phone. \'93Laurie just came in, and she\'92s upset. Let me call you right back.\'94\par
\'93Hold on!\'94 Laurie snapped. \'93Is that Lou Soldano you\'92re talking with?\'94\par
\'93Yeah,\'94 Jack said hesitantly. For an irrational instant, he thought that Laurie was overwrought because he was talking with Lou.\par
\'93Where is he?\'94 Laurie demanded.\par
Jack shrugged. \'93I guess he\'92s in his office.\'94\par
\'93Ask him,\'94 Laurie snapped.\par
Jack posed the question, and Lou answered in the affirmative. Jack nodded to Laurie. \'93He\'92s there,\'94 he said.\par
\'93Tell him we\'92re coming down to see him,\'94 Laurie said.\par
Jack hesitated. He was confused.\par
\'93Tell him!\'94 Laurie repeated. \'93Tell him we\'92re leaving right away.\'94\par
\'93Did you hear that?\'94 Jack asked Lou. Laurie then disappeared down the corridor toward her office.\par
\'93I did,\'94 Lou said. \'93What\'92s going on?\'94\par
\'93Damned if I know,\'94 Jack said. \'93She just barreled in. Unless I call you right back, we\'92ll be there.\'94\par
\'93Fine,\'94 Lou said. \'93I\'92ll wait.\'94\par
Jack hung up the phone and rushed out into the hall. Laurie was already on her way back and was struggling into her coat. She eyed him as she brushed past on her way to the elevators. Jack hustled to catch up with her.\par
\'93What\'92s happened?\'94 Jack asked hesitantly. He was afraid to upset her any more than she already was.\par
\'93I\'92m about ninety-nine percent sure how Franconi\'92s body was taken from here,\'94 Laurie said angrily. \'93And two things are becoming clear. First, the Spoletto Funeral Home was involved and second, the abduction was surely abetted by someone who works here. And to tell you the truth, I\'92m not sure which of these two things bothers me more.\'94\par
\par
\pard\qj\'93Jeez, look at that traffic,\'94 Franco Ponti said to Angelo Facciolo. \'93I\'92m sure as hell glad we\'92re going into Manhattan instead of going out.\'94\par
\pard\fi283\qj Franco and Angelo were in Franco\'92s black Cadillac, heading west on the Queensborough Bridge. It was five-thirty, the height of rush hour. Both men were dressed as if they were going to a ritzy dinner.\par
\'93What order do you want to do this in?\'94 Franco asked.\par
Angelo shrugged. \'93Maybe the girl first,\'94 he said. His face twisted into a slight smile.\par
\'93You\'92re looking forward to this, aren\'92t you?\'94 Franco commented.\par
Angelo raised his eyebrows as much as his facial scar tissue would allow. \'93Five years I\'92ve been dreaming about seeing this broad professionally,\'94 he said. \'93I guess I never thought I would get my chance.\'94\par
\'93I know I don\'92t have to remind you that we follow orders,\'94 Franco said. \'93To the letter.\'94\par
\'93Cerino was never so specific,\'94 Angelo said. \'93He\'92d just tell us to do a job. He didn\'92t tell us how to do it.\'94\par
\'93That\'92s why Cerino is in jail and Vinnie is running the show,\'94 Franco said.\par
\'93I\'92ll tell you what,\'94 Angelo said. \'93Why don\'92t we do a drive by Jack Stapleton\'92s place. I\'92ve already been inside Laurie Montgomery\'92s apartment, so I know what we\'92re getting ourselves into. But I\'92m a little surprised by this other address. West One Hundred-sixth Street isn\'92t where I\'92d expect a doctor to be living.\'94\par
\'93I think a drive-by sounds smart,\'94 Franco said.\par
When they reached Manhattan, Franco continued west on Fifty-ninth Street. He rounded the southern end of Central Park and headed north on Central Park West.\par
Angelo thought back to the fateful day on the pier of the American Fresh Fruit Company when Laurie caused the explosion. Angelo had had skin problems from chicken pox and acne, but it had been the burns he suffered because of Laurie Montgomery that had turned him into what he called a \'93freak.\'94\par
Franco posed a question, but Angelo hadn\'92t heard him because of his angry musings. He had to ask him to repeat it.\par
\'93I bet you\'92d like to stick it to that Laurie Montgomery,\'94 Franco said. \'93If it had been me, I sure would.\'94\par
Angelo let out a sarcastic laugh. Unconsciously, he moved his left arm so that he could feel the reassuring mass of his Walther TPH auto pistol snuggled into its shoulder holster.\par
Franco turned left onto One Hundred-sixth Street. They passed a playground on the right that was in full use, particularly the basketball court. There were lots of people standing on the sidelines.\par
\'93It must be on the left,\'94 Franco said.\par
Angelo consulted the piece of paper he was holding with Jack\'92s address. \'93It\'92s coming up,\'94 he said. \'93It\'92s the building with the fancy top.\'94\par
Franco slowed and then stopped to double-park a few buildings short of Jack\'92s on the opposite side of the street. A car behind beeped. Franco lowered his window and motioned for the car to pass. There was cursing as the car did so. Franco shook his head. \'93You hear that guy? Nobody in this city has any manners.\'94\par
\'93Why would a doctor live there?\'94 Angelo said. He was eyeing Jack\'92s building through the front windshield.\par
Franco shook his head. \'93Doesn\'92t make any sense to me. The building looks like a dump.\'94\par
\'93Amendola said he was a little strange,\'94 Angelo said. \'93Apparently, he rides a bike from here all the way down to the morgue at First Avenue and Thirtieth Street every day.\'94\par
\'93No way!\'94 Franco commented.\par
\'93That\'92s what Amendola said,\'94 Angelo said.\par
Franco\'92s eyes scanned the area. \'93The whole neighborhood is a dump. Maybe he\'92s into drugs.\'94\par
Angelo opened the car door and got out.\par
\'93Where are you going?\'94 Franco asked.\par
\'93I want to check to make sure he lives here,\'94 Angelo said. \'93Amendola said his apartment is the fourth floor rear. I\'92ll be right back.\'94\par
Angelo rounded the car and waited for a break in the traffic. He crossed the street and climbed to the stoop in front of Jack\'92s building. Calmly, he pushed open the outer door and glanced at the mailboxes. Many were broken. None had locks that worked.\par
Quickly, Angelo sorted through the mail. As soon as he came across a catalogue addressed to Jack Stapleton, he put it all back. Next, he tried the inner door. It opened with ease.\par
Stepping into the front hall, Angelo took a breath. There was an unpleasant musty odor. He eyed the trash on the stairs, the peeling paint, and the broken light bulbs in the once-elegant chandelier. Up on the second floor, he could hear the sounds of a domestic fight with muffled screaming. Angelo smiled. Dealing with Jack Stapleton was going to be easy. The tenement looked like a crack house.\par
Returning to the front of the house, Angelo took a step away to determine which underground passageway belonged to Jack\'92s building. Each house had a sunken corridor reached by a half dozen steps. These corridors led to the backyards.\par
After deciding which was the appropriate one, Angelo gingerly walked its length. There were puddles and refuse which threatened his Bruno Magli shoes.\par
The backyard was a tumult of decaying and collapsed fencing, rotting mattresses, abandoned tires, and other trash. After carefully picking his way a few feet from the building, Angelo turned to look at the fire escape. On the fourth floor two windows had access. The windows were dark. The doctor wasn\'92t at home.\par
Angelo returned and climbed back into the car.\par
\'93Well?\'94 Franco asked.\par
\'93He lives there all right,\'94 Angelo said. \'93The building is worse on the inside if you can believe it. It\'92s not locked. I could hear a couple fighting on the second floor and someone else\'92s TV on full blast. The place is not pretty but for our purposes it\'92s perfect. It\'92ll be easy.\par
\'93That\'92s what I like to hear,\'94 Franco said. \'93Should we still do the woman first?\'94\par
Angelo smiled as best he could. \'93Why deny myself?\'94\par
Franco put the car in gear. They headed south on Columbus Avenue to Broadway then cut across town to Second Avenue. Soon they were on Nineteenth Street. Angelo didn\'92t need the address. He pointed out Laurie\'92s building without difficulty. Franco found a convenient no-parking zone and parked.\par
\'93So, you think we should go up the back way?\'94 Franco said, while eyeing the building.\par
\'93For several reasons,\'94 Angelo said. \'93She\'92s on the fifth floor, but her windows face the back. To tell if she\'92s there, we have to go back there anyway. Also she\'92s got a nosy neighbor who lives in the front, and you can see her lights are on. This woman opened her door to gawk at me the two times I was up at Montgomery\'92s front door. Besides, Montgomery\'92s apartment has access to the back stairs, and the back stairs dump directly into the backyard. I know because we chased her out that way.\'94\par
\'93I\'92m convinced,\'94 Franco said. \'93Let\'92s do it.\'94\par
Franco and Angelo got out of the car. Angelo opened up the backseat and lifted out his bag of lock-picking tools along with a Halligan bar, a tool firefighters use to get through doors in cases of emergency.\par
The two men headed for the passageway to the backyard.\par
\'93I heard she got away from you and Tony Ruggerio,\'94 Franco said. \'93At least for a while. She must be quite a number.\'94\par
\'93Don\'92t remind me,\'94 Angelo said. \'93Of course, working with Tony was like carrying around a bucket of sand.\'94\par
Emerging into the backyard, which was a dark warren of neglected gardens, Franco and Angelo carefully moved away from the building far enough to see up to the fifth floor. The windows were all dark.\par
\'93Looks like we have time to prepare a nice homecoming,\'94 Franco said.\par
Angelo didn\'92t answer. Instead, he took his lock-picking tools over to the metal fire door that led to the back stairs. He slipped on a tight-fitting pair of leather gloves, while Franco readied the flashlight.\par
At first Angelo\'92s hands shook from sheer anticipatory excitement of coming face-to-face with Laurie Montgomery after five years of smoldering resentment. When the lock resisted Angelo\'92s efforts, he made a point to control himself and concentrate. The lock responded, and the door opened.\par
Five floors up, Angelo didn\'92t bother with the lock-picking tools. He knew that Laurie had several dead bolts. He used the Halligan bar. With a quiet splintering sound, it made short work of the door. Within twenty seconds, they were inside.\par
For a few minutes, the two men stood motionless in the darkness of Laurie\'92s pantry so that they could listen. They wanted to be certain there were no sounds suggestive that their forced entry had been noticed by any of the other tenants.\par
\'93Jesus Christ!\'94 Franco forcibly whispered. \'93Something just touched my leg!\'94\par
\'93What is it?\'94 Angelo demanded. He\'92d not expected such an outburst, and it caused his heart to flutter.\par
\'93Oh, it\'92s only a goddamn cat!\'94 Franco said with relief. All at once, both men could hear the animal purring in the darkness.\par
\'93Aren\'92t we lucky,\'94 Angelo said. \'93That will be a nice touch. Bring it along.\'94\par
Slowly, the men made their way from the pantry through the dark kitchen and into the living room. There they could see significantly better with the city night light coming through the windows.\par
\'93So far so good,\'94 Angelo said.\par
\'93Now we just have to wait,\'94 Franco said. \'93Maybe I\'92ll see if there\'92s any beer or wine in the refrigerator. Are you interested?\'94\par
\'93A beer would be nice,\'94 Angelo said.\par
\par
\pard\qj At police headquarters, Laurie and Jack had to get ID badges and go through a metal detector before they were allowed to go up to Lou\'92s floor. Lou was at the elevator to welcome them.\par
\pard\fi283\qj The first thing he did was take Laurie by the shoulders, look her in the eye, and ask what had happened.\par
\'93She\'92s okay,\'94 Jack said, patting Lou reassuringly on the back. \'93She\'92s back to her old, rational, calm self.\'94\par
\'93Really?\'94 Lou questioned, still giving Laurie a close inspection.\par
Laurie couldn\'92t help but smile under Lou\'92s intense scrutiny. \'93Jack\'92s right,\'94 she said. \'93I\'92m fine. In fact, I\'92m embarrassed I made us rush down here.\'94\par
Lou breathed a sigh of relief. \'93Well, I\'92m happy to see both of you. Come on back to my palace.\'94 He led the way to his office.\par
\'93I can offer you coffee, but I strongly advise against it,\'94 Lou said. \'93At this time of day the janitorial staff considers it strong enough to clean out sink drains.\'94\par
\'93We\'92re fine,\'94 Laurie said. She took a chair.\par
Jack did likewise. He glanced around the spartan quarters with an unpleasant shiver. The last time he\'92d been there about a year ago, it had been after he\'92d narrowly escaped an attempt on his life.\par
\'93I think I figured out how Franconi\'92s body was taken from the morgue,\'94 Laurie began. \'93You teased me about suspecting the Spoletto Funeral Home, but now I think you\'92re going to have to take that back. In fact, I think it\'92s time that you took over.\'94\par
Laurie then outlined what she thought had happened. She told Lou that she suspected that someone from the medical examiner\'92s office had given the Spoletto people the accession number of a relatively recent, unidentified body as well as the location of Franconi\'92s remains.\par
\'93Often when two drivers come to pick up a body for a funeral home, one of them goes in the walk-in cooler while the other handles the paperwork with the mortuary tech,\'94 Laurie explained. \'93In these instances, the mortuary tech prepares the body for pickup by covering it with a sheet and positioning its gurney in a convenient location just inside the cooler door. In the Franconi situation, I believe the driver took the body whose accession number he had, removed its tag, stashed the body in one of the many unoccupied refrigerator compartments, replaced Franconi\'92s tag with that one, and then calmly appeared outside the mortuary office with Franconi\'92s remains. All the tech did at that point was check the accession number.\'94\par
\'93That\'92s quite a scenario,\'94 Lou said. \'93Can I ask if you have any proof of this or is it all conjecture?\'94\par
\'93I found the body whose accession number Spoletto called in,\'94 Laurie said. \'93It was in a compartment which was supposed to be vacant. The name Frank Gleason was bogus.\'94\par
\'93Ahhhh!\'94 Lou said, becoming much more interested. He leaned forward on his desk. \'93I\'92m beginning to like this very much, especially considering the matrimonial association between the Spoletto and the Lucia people. This could be something important. It kind\'92a reminds me of getting Al Capone on tax evasion. I mean, it would be fantastic if we could get some of the Lucia people on body theft!\'94\par
\'93Of course, it also raises the specter of an organized crime connection to illicit liver transplantation,\'94 Jack said. \'93This could be a frightening association.\'94\par
\'93Dangerous as well,\'94 Lou said. \'93So I must insist on no more amateur sleuthing on your part. We take over from here. Do I have your word on that?\'94\par
\'93I\'92m happy to let you take over,\'94 Laurie said. \'93But there is also the issue of a mole in the medical examiner\'92s office.\'94\par
\'93I think it\'92s best I deal with that, too,\'94 Lou said. \'93With the involvement of organized crime, I\'92d expect some element of extortion or criminal coercion. But I\'92ll deal directly with Bingham. I shouldn\'92t have to warn you that these people are dangerous.\'94\par
\'93I learned that lesson all too well,\'94 Laurie said.\par
\'93I\'92m too preoccupied with my end of the mystery to interfere,\'94 Jack said. \'93What did you learn for me?\'94\par
\'93Plenty,\'94 Lou said. He reached over to the corner of his desk and hefted a large book the size of a coffee-table art book. With a grunt, he handed it to Jack.\par
With a look of confusion, Jack cracked the book. \'93What the hell!\'94 he commented. \'93What\'92s an atlas for?\'94\par
\'93Because you\'92re going to need it,\'94 Lou said. \'93I can\'92t tell you how long it took me to scrounge one up here at police headquarters.\'94\par
\'93I don\'92t get it,\'94 Jack said.\par
\'93My contact at the FAA was able to call someone who knew someone who works in a European organization that doles out landing and takeoff times all over Europe,\'94 Lou explained. \'93They also get the flight plans and store them for over sixty days. Franconi\'92s G4 came to France from Equatorial Guinea.\'94\par
\'93Where?\'94 Jack questioned as his eyebrows collided in an expression of total confusion. \'93I never even heard of Equatorial Guinea. Is it a country?\'94\par
\'93Check out page one hundred fifty-two!\'94 Lou said.\par
\'93What\'92s this about a Franconi and a G4?\'94 Laurie asked.\par
\'93A G4 is a private jet,\'94 Lou explained. \'93I was able to find out for Jack that Franconi had been out of the country. We thought he\'92d been in France until I got this new information.\'94\par
Jack got to page 152 in the atlas. It was a map labeled \'93the Western Congo Basin,\'94 covering a huge portion of western Africa.\par
\'93All right, give me a hint,\'94 Jack said.\par
Lou pointed over Jack\'92s shoulder. \'93It\'92s this little tiny country between Cameroon and Gabon. The city that the plane flew out of is Bata, on the coast.\'94 He pointed to the appropriate dot. The atlas depicted the country as mostly uninterrupted green.\par
Laurie got up from her chair and looked over Jack\'92s other shoulder. \'93I think I remember hearing about that country one time. I think that\'92s where the writer Frederick Forsyth went to write \i Dogs of War\i0 .\'94\par
Lou slapped the top of his head in utter amazement. \'93How do you remember stuff like that? I can\'92t remember where I had lunch last Tuesday.\'94\par
Laurie shrugged. \'93I read a lot of novels,\'94 she said. \'93Writers interest me.\'94\par
\'93This doesn\'92t make any sense whatsoever,\'94 Jack complained. \'93This is an undeveloped part of Africa. This country must be covered with nothing but jungle. In fact, this whole part of Africa is nothing but jungle. Franconi couldn\'92t have gotten a liver transplant there.\'94\par
\'93That was my reaction, too,\'94 Lou said. \'93But the other information makes a little more sense. I tracked Alpha Aviation through its Nevada management corporation to its real owner. It\'92s GenSys Corp in Cambridge, Massachusetts.\'94\par
\'93I\'92ve heard of GenSys,\'94 Laurie said. \'93It\'92s a biotech firm that\'92s big in vaccines and lymphokines. I remember because a girlfriend of mine who\'92s a broker in Chicago recommended the stock. She\'92s forever giving me tips, thinking I\'92ve got tons of money to invest.\'94\par
\'93A biotech company!\'94 Jack mused. \'93Hmmm. That\'92s a new twist. It must be significant, although I don\'92t quite know how. Nor do I know what a biotech firm would be doing in Equatorial Guinea.\'94\par
\'93What\'92s the meaning of this indirect corporate trail in Nevada?\'94 Laurie asked. \'93Is GenSys trying to hide the fact that they own an aircraft?\'94\par
\'93I doubt it,\'94 Lou said. \'93I was able to learn the connection too easily. If GenSys was trying to conceal ownership, the lawyers in Nevada would have continued to be the directors and officers of record for Alpha Aviation. Instead, at the first board meeting the chief financial officer of GenSys assumed the duties of president and secretary.\'94\par
\'93Then why Nevada for an airplane owned by a Massachusetts-based company?\'94 Laurie asked.\par
\'93I\'92m no lawyer,\'94 Lou admitted. \'93But I\'92m sure it has something to do with taxes and limitation of liability. Massachusetts is a terrible state to get sued in. I imagine GenSys leases its plane out for the percentage of the time it doesn\'92t use it, and insurance for a Nevada-based company would be a lot less.\'94\par
\'93How well do you know this broker friend of yours?\'94 Jack asked Laurie.\par
\'93Really well,\'94 Laurie said. \'93We went to Wesleyan University together.\'94\par
\'93How about giving her a call and asking her if she knows of any connection between GenSys and Equatorial Guinea,\'94 Jack said. \'93If she recommended the stock, she\'92d probably thoroughly researched the company.\'94\par
\'93Without a doubt,\'94 Laurie said. \'93Jean Corwin was one of the most compulsive students I knew. She made us premeds seem casual by comparison.\'94\par
\'93Is it all right if Laurie uses your phone?\'94 Jack asked Lou.\par
\'93No problem,\'94 Lou said.\par
\'93You want me to call this minute?\'94 Laurie asked with surprise.\par
\'93Catch her while she\'92s still at work,\'94 Jack said. \'93Chances are if she has any file, it would be there.\'94\par
\'93You\'92re probably right,\'94 Laurie admitted. She sat down at Lou\'92s desk and called Chicago information.\par
While Laurie was on the phone, Jack quizzed Lou in detail about how he was able to find out what he had. He was particularly interested and impressed with the way Lou had come up with Equatorial Guinea. Together, they looked more closely at the map, noticing the country\'92s proximity to the equator. They even noticed that its major city, presumably its capital, wasn\'92t on the mainland but rather on an island called Bioko.\par
\'93I just can\'92t imagine what it\'92s like in a place like that,\'94 Lou said.\par
\'93I can,\'94 Jack said. \'93It\'92s hot, buggy, rainy, and wet.\'94\par
\'93Sounds delightful,\'94 Lou quipped.\par
\'93Not the place someone would choose to vacation,\'94 Jack said. \'93On the other hand, it\'92s off the beaten track.\'94\par
Laurie hung up the phone and twisted around in Lou\'92s desk chair to face the others. \'93Jean was as organized as I expected,\'94 she said. \'93She was able to put her finger on her GenSys material in a flash. Of course, she had to ask me how much of the stock I\'92d bought and was crushed when I admitted I hadn\'92t bought any. Apparently, the stock tripled and then split.\'94\par
\'93Is that good?\'94 Lou asked facetiously.\par
\'93So good I might have missed my opportunity to retire,\'94 Laurie said. \'93She said this is the second successful biotech company started by its CEO, Taylor Cabot.\'94\par
\'93Did she have anything to say about Equatorial Guinea?\'94 Jack asked.\par
\'93For sure,\'94 Laurie said. \'93She said that one of the main reasons the company has been doing so well is that it established a huge primate farm. Initially, the farm was to do in-house research for GenSys. Then someone hit on the idea of creating an opportunity for other biotech companies and pharmaceutical firms to out-source their primate research to GenSys. Apparently, the demand for this service has trampled even the most optimistic forecasts.\'94\par
\'93And this primate farm is in Equatorial Guinea?\'94 Jack asked.\par
\'93That\'92s right,\'94 Laurie said.\par
\'93Did she suggest any reason why?\'94 Jack asked.\par
\'93A memorandum she had from an analyst said that GenSys chose Equatorial Guinea because of the favorable reception they received from the government, which even passed laws to aid their operation. Apparently, GenSys has become the government\'92s major source of much-needed foreign currency.\'94\par
\'93Can you imagine the amount of graft that must be involved in that kind of scenario?\'94 Jack asked Lou.\par
Lou merely whistled.\par
\'93The memorandum also pointed out that most of the primates they use are indigenous to Equatorial Guinea,\'94 Laurie added. \'93It allows them to circumvent all the international restrictions in exportation and importation of endangered species like chimpanzees.\'94\par
\'93A primate farm,\'94 Jack repeated while shaking his head. \'93This is raising even more bizarre possibilities. Could we be dealing with a xenograft?\'94\par
\'93Don\'92t start that doctor jargon on me,\'94 Lou complained. \'93What in God\'92s name is a xenograft?\'94\par
\'93Impossible,\'94 Laurie said. \'93Xenografts cause hyper-acute rejections. There was no evidence of inflammation in the liver section you showed me, neither humoral nor cell-mediated.\'94\par
\'93True,\'94 Jack said. \'93And he wasn\'92t even on any immunosuppressant drugs.\'94\par
\'93Come on, you guys,\'94 Lou pleaded. \'93Don\'92t make me beg. What the hell is a xenograft?\'94\par
\'93It\'92s when a transplant organ is taken from an animal of a different species,\'94 Laurie said.\par
\'93You mean like that Baby Fae baboon heart fiasco ten or twelve years ago?\'94 Lou asked.\par
\'93Exactly,\'94 Laurie said.\par
\'93The new immunosuppressant drugs have brought xenografts back into the picture,\'94 Jack explained. \'93And with considerable more success than with Baby Fae.\'94\par
\'93Especially with pig heart valves,\'94 Laurie said.\par
\'93Of course, it poses a lot of ethical questions,\'94 Jack said. \'93And it drives animal-rights people berserk.\'94\par
\'93Especially now that they are experimenting with inserting human genes into the pigs to ameliorate some of the rejection reaction,\'94 Laurie added.\par
\'93Could Franconi have gotten a primate liver while he was in Africa?\'94 Lou asked.\par
\'93I can\'92t imagine,\'94 Jack said. \'93Laurie\'92s point is well taken. There was no evidence of any rejection. That\'92s unheard of even with a good human match short of identical twins.\'94\par
\'93But Franconi was apparently in Africa,\'94 Lou said.\par
\'93True, and his mother said he came home a new man,\'94 Jack said. He threw up his hands and stood up. \'93I don\'92t know what to make of it. It\'92s the damnest mystery. Especially with this organized crime aspect thrown in.\'94\par
Laurie stood up as well.\par
\'93Are you guys leaving?\'94 Lou asked.\par
Jack nodded. \'93I\'92m confused and exhausted,\'94 he said. \'93I didn\'92t sleep much last night. After we made the identification of Franconi\'92s remains, I was on the phone for hours. I called every European organ allocation organization whose phone number I could get.\'94\par
\'93How about we all head over to Little Italy for a quick dinner?\'94 Lou suggested. \'93It\'92s right around the corner.\'94\par
\'93Not me,\'94 Jack said. \'93I\'92ve got a bike ride ahead of me. At this point, a meal would do me in.\'94\par
\'93Nor I,\'94 Laurie said. \'93I\'92m looking forward to getting home and taking a shower. It\'92s been two late nights for me in a row, and I\'92m frazzled.\'94\par
Lou admitted to having another half hour of work to do, so Laurie and Jack said goodbye and descended to the first floor. They returned their temporary-visitor badges and left police headquarters. In the shadow of City Hall, they caught a cab.\par
\'93Feel better?\'94 Jack asked Laurie, as they headed north up the Bowery. A kaleidoscope of light played across their faces.\par
\'93Much,\'94 Laurie admitted. \'93I can\'92t tell you how relieved I am to dump it all in Lou\'92s capable lap. I\'92m sorry I got myself so worked up.\'94\par
\'93No need to apologize,\'94 Jack said. \'93It\'92s unsettling, to say the least, there\'92s a potential spy in our midst and that organized crime has an interest in liver transplants.\'94\par
\'93And how are you bearing up?\'94 Laurie asked. \'93You\'92re getting a lot of bizarre input on the Franconi case.\'94\par
\'93It\'92s bizarre, but it\'92s also intriguing,\'94 Jack said. \'93Especially this association with a biotech giant like GenSys. The scary part about these corporations is that their research is all behind closed doors. Cold-war style secrecy is their modus operandi. No one knows what they are doing in their quest for return on investment. It\'92s a big difference from ten or twenty years ago when the NIH funded most biomedical research in a kind of open forum. In those days, there was oversight in the form of peer review, but not today.\'94\par
\'93Too bad there\'92s no one like Lou that you can turn the case over to,\'94 Laurie said with a chuckle.\par
\'93Wouldn\'92t that be nice,\'94 Jack said.\par
\'93What\'92s your next step?\'94 Laurie asked.\par
Jack sighed. \'93I\'92m running out of options. The only thing that\'92s scheduled is for a veterinary pathologist to review the liver section.\'94\par
\'93So, you already thought about a xenograft?\'94 Laurie asked with surprise.\par
\'93No, I didn\'92t,\'94 Jack admitted. \'93The suggestion to have a veterinary pathologist look at the slide wasn\'92t my idea. It came from a parasitologist over at the hospital who thought the granuloma was due to a parasite, but one he didn\'92t recognize.\'94\par
\'93Maybe you should mention the possibility of a xenograft to Ted Lynch,\'94 Laurie suggested. \'93As a DNA expert he might have something in his bag of tricks that could say yes or no definitively.\'94\par
\'93Excellent idea!\'94 Jack said with admiration. \'93How can you come up with such a great suggestion when you\'92re so beat? You amaze me! My mind has already shut down for the night.\'94\par
\'93Compliments are always welcome,\'94 Laurie teased. \'93Especially in the dark, so you can\'92t see me blush.\'94\par
\'93I\'92m starting to think that the only option that might be open to me if I really want to solve this case is a quick trip to Equatorial Guinea.\'94\par
Laurie twisted around in the seat so she could look directly into Jack\'92s broad face. In the half light, it was impossible to see his eyes. \'93You\'92re not serious. I mean you\'92re joking, right?\'94\par
\'93Well, there\'92s no way I could phone GenSys or even go up to Cambridge and walk into their home office and say: \'91Hi folks, what\'92s going on in Equatorial Guinea?\'92\~\'94\par
\'93But we\'92re talking about Africa,\'94 Laurie said. \'93That\'92s crazy. It\'92s halfway around the world. Besides, if you don\'92t think you\'92d learn anything going up to Cambridge, what makes you think you\'92d learn anything going to Africa?\'94\par
\'93Maybe because they wouldn\'92t expect it,\'94 Jack said. \'93I don\'92t suppose they get many visitors.\'94\par
\'93Oh, this is insane,\'94 Laurie said, flapping her hands into the air and rolling her eyes.\par
\'93Hey, calm down,\'94 Jack said. \'93I didn\'92t say I was going. I just said it was something I was beginning to think about.\'94\par
\'93Well, stop thinking about it,\'94 Laurie said. \'93I\'92ve got enough to worry about.\'94\par
Jack smiled at her. \'93You really are concerned. I\'92m touched.\'94\par
\'93Oh, sure!\'94 Laurie remarked cynically. \'93You\'92re never touched by my pleas not to ride your mountain bike around the city.\'94\par
The taxi pulled up in front of Laurie\'92s apartment building and came to a halt. Laurie started to get some money out. Jack put a hand on her arm. \'93My treat.\'94\par
\'93All right, I\'92ll get it next time,\'94 Laurie said. She started to climb out of the cab, then stopped. \'93If you were to promise to take a cab home, I think we could rustle up something to eat in my apartment.\'94\par
\'93Thanks, but not tonight,\'94 Jack said. \'93I\'92ve got to get the bike home. I\'92d probably fall asleep on a full stomach.\'94\par
\'93Worse things could happen,\'94 Laurie said.\par
\'93Let me take a rain check,\'94 Jack said.\par
Laurie climbed out of the cab and then leaned back in. \'93Just promise me one thing: you won\'92t leave for Africa tonight.\'94\par
Jack took a playful swipe at her, but she easily evaded his hand.\par
\'93Good night, Jack,\'94 Laurie said with a warm smile.\par
\'93Good night, Laurie,\'94 Jack said. \'93I\'92ll call you later after I talk with Warren.\'94\par
\'93Oh, that\'92s right,\'94 Laurie said. \'93With everything that\'92s happened, I\'92d forgotten. I\'92ll be waiting for your call.\'94\par
Laurie closed the taxi door and watched the cab until it disappeared around the corner on First Avenue. She turned toward her door, musing that Jack was a charming but complicated man.\par
As she rode up in her elevator, Laurie began to anticipate her shower and the warmth of her terry-cloth robe. She vowed she\'92d turn in early.\par
Laurie treated Debra Engler to an acid smile before keying her multiple locks. She slammed her door behind her to give Mrs. Engler an extra message. Moving her mail from one hand to the other, she removed her coat. In the darkness of the closet, she groped for a hanger.\par
It wasn\'92t until Laurie entered the living room that she flipped the wall switch that turned on a floor lamp. She got two steps toward the kitchen when she let out a muffled scream and dropped her mail on the floor. There were two men in the living room. One was in her art-deco chair, the other sitting on the couch. The one on the couch was petting Tom, who was asleep on his lap.\par
The other thing Laurie noticed was a large handgun with an attached silencer on the arm of the art-deco chair.\par
\'93Welcome home, Dr. Montgomery,\'94 Franco said. \'93Thank you for the wine and beer.\'94\par
Laurie\'92s eyes went to the coffee table. There was an empty beer bottle and wineglass.\par
\'93Please come over and sit down,\'94 Franco said. He pointed to a side chair they\'92d put in the middle of the room.\par
Laurie didn\'92t move. She was incapable of it. She thought vaguely about running into the kitchen for the phone but immediately dismissed the idea as ridiculous. She even thought about fleeing back to her front door, but with all the locks, she knew it would be a futile gesture.\par
\'93Please!\'94 Franco repeated with a false politeness that only augmented Laurie\'92s terror.\par
Angelo moved the cat to the side and stood up. He took a step toward Laurie and, without warning, backhanded her viciously across the face. The blow propelled Laurie back against the wall, where her legs gave way. She slumped to her hands and knees. A few drops of bright red blood dropped from her split upper lip, splattering on the hardwood floor.\par
Angelo grabbed her by the upper arm and roughly hoisted her to her feet. Then he powered her over to the chair and pushed her into a sitting position. Laurie\'92s terror made her incapable of resisting.\par
\'93That\'92s better,\'94 Franco said.\par
Angelo leaned over and stuck his face in Laurie\'92s. \'93Recognize me?\'94\par
Laurie forced herself to look up into the man\'92s horribly scarred face. He looked like a character in a horror movie. She swallowed; her throat had gone dry. Incapable of speech, all she could do was shake her head.\par
\'93No?\'94 Franco questioned. \'93Doctor, I\'92m afraid you are going to hurt Angelo\'92s feelings and, under the circumstances, that\'92s a dangerous thing to do.\'94\par
\'93I\'92m sorry,\'94 Laurie squeaked. But no sooner had the words come out, then Laurie associated the name with the fact that the man standing in front of her had been burned. It was Angelo Facciolo, Cerino\'92s main hit man, now obviously out of jail.\par
\'93I\'92ve been waiting five years,\'94 Angelo snarled. Then he struck Laurie again, half knocking her off the chair. She ended up with her head down. There was more blood. This time it came from her nose and soaked into the carpet.\par
\'93Okay, Angelo!\'94 Franco said. \'93Remember! We\'92ve got to talk with her.\'94\par
Angelo trembled for a moment over Laurie, as if struggling to restrain himself. Abruptly, he went back to the couch and sat down. He picked the cat back up and began roughly petting it. Tom didn\'92t mind and began to purr.\par
Laurie managed to right herself. With her hand, she felt both her lip and her nose. Her lip was already beginning to swell. She pinched her nose to halt the bleeding.\par
\'93Listen, Doctor Montgomery,\'94 Franco said. \'93As you might imagine, it was very easy for us to come in here. I say this so you will comprehend how vulnerable you are. You see, we have a problem that you can help us with. We\'92re here to ask you nicely to leave the Franconi thing alone. Am I making myself clear?\'94\par
Laurie nodded. She was afraid not to.\par
\'93Good,\'94 Franco said. \'93Now, we are very reasonable people. We\'92ll consider this a favor on your part, and we\'92re willing to do a favor in return. We happen to know who killed Mr. Franconi, and we\'92re willing to pass that information on to you. You see, Mr. Franconi wasn\'92t a nice man, so he was killed. End of story. Are you still with me?\'94\par
Laurie nodded again. She glanced at Angelo but quickly averted her eyes.\par
\'93The killer\'92s name is Vido Delbario,\'94 Franco continued. \'93He\'92s not a nice person, either, although he did do the world a favor in getting rid of Franconi. I\'92ve even taken the trouble to write the name down.\'94 Franco leaned forward and put a piece of paper on the coffee table. \'93So, a favor for a favor.\'94\par
Franco paused and looked expectantly at Laurie.\par
\'93You do understand what I\'92m saying, don\'92t you?\'94 Franco asked after a moment of silence.\par
Laurie nodded for the third time.\par
\'93I mean, we\'92re not asking much,\'94 Franco said. \'93To be blunt, Franconi was a bad guy. He killed a bunch of people and deserved to die himself. Now, as far as you are concerned, I hope you will be sensible because in a city this size there\'92s no way to protect yourself, and Angelo here would like no better than have his way with you. Lucky for you, our boss is not heavy-handed. He\'92s a negotiator. Do you understand?\'94\par
Franco paused again. Laurie felt compelled to respond. With difficulty, she managed to say she understood.\par
\'93Wonderful!\'94 Franco said. He slapped his knees and stood up. \'93When I heard how intelligent and resourceful you are, Doc, I was confident we could see eye to eye.\'94\par
Franco slipped his handgun into his shoulder holster and put on his Ferragamo coat. \'93Come on, Angelo,\'94 he said. \'93I\'92m sure the doctor wants to shower and have her dinner. She looks kind\'92a tired to me.\'94\par
Angelo got up, took a step in Laurie\'92s direction, and then viciously wrenched the cat\'92s neck. There was a sickening snap, and Tom went limp without a sound. Angelo dumped the dead cat in Laurie\'92s lap, and followed Franco out the front door.\par
\'93Oh, no!\'94 Laurie whimpered as she cradled her pet of six years. She knew its neck had been cruelly broken. She stood up on rubbery legs. Out in the hall, she heard the elevator arrive and then descend.\par
With sudden panic she rushed to the front door and relocked all the locks while still clutching Tom\'92s body. Then, realizing the intruders had to have come in the back door, she raced there only to find it wide open and splintered. She forced it closed as best she could.\par
Back in the kitchen she took the phone off the hook with trembling hands. Her first response was to call the police, but then she hesitated, hearing Franco\'92s voice in the back of her mind warning her how vulnerable she was. She also could see Angelo\'92s horrid face and the intensity of his eyes.\par
Recognizing she was in shock and fighting tears, Laurie replaced the receiver. She thought she\'92d call Jack, but she knew he wouldn\'92t be home yet. So, instead of calling anyone for the moment, she tenderly packed her pet in a Styrofoam box with several trays of ice cubes. Then she went into the bathroom to check out her own wounds.\par
\par
\pard\qj Jack\'92s bike ride from the morgue home was not the ordeal he expected. In fact, once he got under way, he felt better than he had for most of the day. He even allowed himself to cut through Central Park. It had been the first time he\'92d been in the park after dark for a year. Although he was uneasy, it was also exhilarating to sprint along the dark, winding paths.\par
\pard\fi283\qj For most of the trip, he\'92d pondered about GenSys and Equatorial Guinea. He wondered what it was really like in that part of Africa. He\'92d joked earlier with Lou that it was buggy, hot, and wet, but he didn\'92t know for sure.\par
He also thought about Ted Lynch and wondered what Ted would be able to do the following day. Before Jack had left the morgue, he\'92d called him at home to outline the unlikely possibility of a xenograft. Ted said that he thought he\'92d be able to tell by checking an area on the DNA that specified ribosomal proteins. He\'92d explained that the area differed considerably from species to species and that the information to make a species identification was available on a CD-ROM.\par
Jack turned onto his street with the idea of going to the local bookstore to see if there was any material on Equatorial Guinea. But as he approached the playground with its daily late afternoon and evening game of basketball under way, he had another idea. It occurred to him that there might be expatriate Equatoguineans in New York. After all, the city harbored people from every country in the world.\par
Turning his bike into the playground, Jack dismounted and leaned it up against the chain-link fence. He didn\'92t bother to lock it, though most people would have thought the neighborhood a risky place to leave a thousand-dollar bike. In reality, the playground was the only place in New York Jack felt he didn\'92t have to lock up.\par
Jack walked over to the sidelines and nodded to Spit and Flash, who were part of the crowd waiting to play. The game in progress swept up and down the court as the ball changed hands or baskets were made. As usual, Warren was dominating the play. Before each of his shots he\'92d say \'93money,\'94 which was aggravating to the opponents because ninety percent of the time, the ball would sail through the basket.\par
A quarter hour later the game was decided by one of Warren\'92s \'93money\'94 shots, and the losers slunk off the court. Warren caught sight of Jack and strutted over.\par
\'93Hey, man, you going to run or what?\'94 Warren asked.\par
\'93I\'92m thinking about it,\'94 Jack said. \'93But I\'92ve got a couple of questions. First of all, how about you and Natalie getting together with Laurie and me this weekend?\'94\par
\'93Hell, yes,\'94 Warren said. \'93Anything to shut my shortie up. She\'92s been ragging on me fierce about you and Laurie.\'94\par
\'93Secondly, do you know any brothers from a tiny African country called Equatorial Guinea?\'94\par
\'93Man, I never know what\'92s going to come out of your mouth,\'94 Warren complained. \'93Let me think.\'94\par
\'93It\'92s on the west coast of Africa,\'94 Jack said. \'93Between Cameroon and Gabon.\'94\par
\'93I know where it is,\'94 Warren said indignantly. \'93It was supposedly discovered by the Portuguese and colonized by the Spanish. Actually, it was discovered a long time earlier by black people.\'94\par
\'93I\'92m impressed you know of it,\'94 Jack said. \'93I\'92d never heard of the country.\'94\par
\'93I\'92m not surprised,\'94 Warren said. \'93I\'92m sure you didn\'92t take any black history courses. But to answer your question, yes, I do know a couple of people from there, and one family in particular. Their name is Ndeme. They live two doors down from you, toward the park.\'94\par
Jack looked over at the building, then back at Warren. \'93Do you know them well enough to introduce me?\'94 Jack asked. \'93I\'92ve developed a sudden interest in Equatorial Guinea.\'94\par
\'93Yeah, sure,\'94 Warren said. \'93The father\'92s name is Esteban. He owns the Mercado market over on Columbus. That\'92s his son over there with the orange kicks.\'94\par
Jack followed Warren\'92s pointing finger until he spotted the orange sneakers. He recognized the boy as one of the basketball regulars. He was a quiet kid and an intense player.\par
\'93Why don\'92t you come down and run a few games?\'94 Warren suggested. \'93Then I\'92ll take you over and introduce you to Esteban. He\'92s a friendly dude.\'94\par
\'93Fair enough,\'94 Jack said. After being revived by the bicycle ride, he was looking for an excuse to play basketball. The events of the day had him in knots.\par
Jack went back and got his bike. Hurrying over to his building, he carried the bicycle up the stairs. He unlocked his door without even taking it off his shoulder. Once inside, he made a beeline for his bedroom and his basketball gear.\par
Within five minutes, Jack was already on his way out when his phone rang. For a moment, he debated answering it, but thinking it might be Ted calling back with a bit of arcane DNA trivia, Jack picked it up. It was Laurie, and she was beside herself.\par
\par
\pard\qj Jack crammed enough bills through the Plexiglas partition in the taxi to more than cover the fare and jumped out. He was in front of Laurie\'92s apartment building, where he\'92d been less than an hour earlier. Dressed in his basketball gear he raced to the front door and was buzzed in. Laurie met him in the elevator foyer on her floor.\par
\pard\fi283\qj\'93My god!\'94 Jack wailed. \'93Look at your lip.\'94\par
\'93That will heal,\'94 Laurie said stoically. Then she caught Debra Engler\'92s eye peering through the crack in her door. Laurie lunged at the woman and shouted for her to mind her own business. The door snapped shut.\par
Jack put his arm around Laurie to calm her and led her into her apartment.\par
\'93All right,\'94 Jack said, after getting Laurie seated on the couch. \'93Tell me what happened.\'94\par
\'93They killed Tom,\'94 Laurie whimpered. After the initial shock, Laurie had cried for her pet, but her tears had dried until Jack\'92s question.\par
\'93Who?\'94 Jack demanded.\par
Laurie waited until she had her emotions under control. \'93There were two of them, but I only knew one,\'94 she said. \'93And he\'92s the one who struck me and killed Tom. His name is Angelo. He\'92s the person I\'92ve had nightmares about. I had a terrible run-in with him during the Cerino affair. I thought he was still in prison. I can\'92t imagine how or why he is out. He\'92s horrid to look at. His face is terribly scarred from burns, and I\'92m sure he blames me.\'94\par
\'93So this visit was for revenge?\'94 Jack asked.\par
\'93No,\'94 Laurie said. \'93This was a warning for me. In their words I\'92m to \'91leave the Franconi thing alone.\'92\~\'94\par
\'93I don\'92t believe this,\'94 Jack said. \'93I\'92m the one investigating the case, not you.\'94\par
\'93You warned me. I\'92ve obviously irritated the wrong people by trying to find out how Franconi\'92s body was lifted from the morgue,\'94 Laurie said. \'93For all I know it was my visit to the Spoletto Funeral Home that set them off.\'94\par
\'93I\'92m not going to take any credit for foreseeing this,\'94 Jack said. \'93I thought you would get in trouble with Bingham, not mobsters.\'94\par
\'93Angelo\'92s warning was presented in the guise of a favor for a favor,\'94 Laurie said. \'93His favor was to tell me who killed Franconi. In fact, he wrote the name down.\'94 Laurie lifted the piece of paper from the coffee table and handed it to Jack.\par
\'93Vido Delbario,\'94 Jack read. He looked back at Laurie\'92s battered face. Both her nose and lip were swollen, and she was developing a black eye. \'93This case has been bizarre from the start, now it\'92s getting out of hand. I think you\'92d better tell me everything that happened.\'94\par
Laurie related to Jack the details from the moment she\'92d walked in the door until she\'92d called him on the phone. She even told him why she\'92d hesitated calling 911.\par
Jack nodded. \'93I understand,\'94 he said. \'93There\'92s little the local precinct could do at this point.\'94\par
\'93What am I going to do?\'94 Laurie asked rhetorically. She didn\'92t expect an answer.\par
\'93Let me look at the back door,\'94 Jack said.\par
Laurie led him through the kitchen and into the pantry.\par
\'93Whoa!\'94 Jack said. Because of the multiple dead bolts the entire edge split when the door had been forced. \'93I\'92ll tell you one thing, you\'92re not staying here tonight.\'94\par
\'93I suppose I could go home to my parents,\'94 Laurie said.\par
\'93You\'92re coming home with me,\'94 Jack said. \'93I\'92ll sleep on the couch.\'94\par
Laurie looked into the depths of Jack\'92s eyes. She couldn\'92t help but wonder if there were more to this sudden invitation than the issue of her safety.\par
\'93Get your things,\'94 Jack said. \'93And pack for a few days. It will take that long to replace this door.\'94\par
\'93I hate to bring this up,\'94 Laurie said. \'93But I have to do something with poor Tom.\'94\par
Jack scratched the back of his head. \'93Do you have access to a shovel?\'94\par
\'93I have a gardening trowel,\'94 Laurie said. \'93What are you thinking?\'94\par
\'93We could bury him in the backyard,\'94 Jack said.\par
Laurie smiled. \'93You are a softie, aren\'92t you?\'94\par
\'93I just know what it\'92s like to lose things you love,\'94 Jack said. His voice caught. For a painful moment he recalled the phone call that had informed him of his wife and daughter\'92s death in a commuter plane crash.\par
While Laurie packed her things, Jack paced her bedroom. He forced his mind to concentrate on current concerns. \'93We\'92re going to have to tell Lou about this,\'94 Jack said, \'93and give him Vido Delbario\'92s name.\'94\par
\'93I was thinking the same thing,\'94 Laurie said from the depths of her walk-in closet. \'93Do you think we should do it tonight?\'94\par
\'93I think we should,\'94 Jack said. \'93Then he can decide when he wants to act on it. We\'92ll call from my house. Do you have his home number?\'94\par
\'93I do,\'94 Laurie said.\par
\'93You know, this episode is disturbing for more reasons than just your safety,\'94 Jack said. \'93It adds to my worry that organized crime is somehow involved in liver transplantation. Maybe there is some kind of black-market operation going on.\'94\par
Laurie came out of her closet with a hangup bag. \'93But how can it be transplantation when Franconi wasn\'92t on immunosuppressant drugs? And don\'92t forget the strange results Ted got with his DNA testing.\'94\par
Jack sighed. \'93You\'92re right,\'94 he admitted. \'93It doesn\'92t fit together.\'94\par
\'93Maybe Lou can make sense of it all,\'94 Laurie said.\par
\'93Wouldn\'92t that be nice,\'94 Jack said. \'93Meanwhile, this episode makes the idea of going to Africa a lot more appealing.\'94\par
Laurie stopped short on her way into the bathroom. \'93What on earth are you talking about?\'94 she demanded.\par
\'93I haven\'92t had any personal experience with organized crime,\'94 Jack said. \'93But I have with street gangs, and I believe there\'92s a similarity that I learned the hard way. If either of these groups gets it in their mind to get rid of you, the police can\'92t protect you unless they are committed to guarding you twenty-four hours a day. The problem is, they don\'92t have the manpower. Maybe it would be good for both of us to get out of town for a while. It could give Lou a chance to sort this out.\'94\par
\'93I\'92d go, too?\'94 Laurie asked. Suddenly the idea of going to Africa had a very different connotation. She\'92d never been to Africa, and it could be interesting. In fact, it might even be fun.\par
\'93We\'92d consider it a forced vacation,\'94 Jack said. \'93Of course, Equatorial Guinea might not be a prime destination, but it would be\~.\~.\~. different. And perhaps, in the process, we\'92ll be able to figure out exactly what GenSys is doing there and why Franconi made the trip.\'94\par
\'93Hmmm,\'94 Laurie said. \'93I\'92m starting to warm to the idea.\'94\par
After Laurie had her things ready, she and Jack took Tom\'92s Styrofoam casket into the backyard. In the far corner of the garden where there was loose loam, they dug a deep hole. The chance discovery of a rusted spade made the job easy, and Tom was put to rest.\par
\'93My word!\'94 Jack complained as he hauled Laurie\'92s suitcase out the front door. \'93What did you put in here?\'94\par
\'93You told me to pack for several days,\'94 Laurie said defensively.\par
\'93But you didn\'92t have to bring your bowling ball,\'94 Jack quipped.\par
\'93It\'92s the cosmetics,\'94 Laurie said. \'93They are not travel size.\'94\par
They caught a cab on First Avenue. En route to Jack\'92s they stopped at a bookstore on Fifth Avenue. While Jack waited in the taxi, Laurie dashed inside to get a book on Equatorial Guinea. Unfortunately, there weren\'92t any, and she had to settle for a guidebook for all of Central Africa.\par
\'93The clerk laughed at me when I asked for a book on Equatorial Guinea,\'94 Laurie said, when she got back in the cab.\par
\'93That\'92s one more hint it\'92s not a top vacation destination,\'94 Jack said.\par
Laurie laughed. She reached over and gave Jack\'92s arm a squeeze. \'93I haven\'92t thanked you yet for coming over,\'94 she said. \'93I really appreciated it, and I\'92m feeling much better.\'94\par
\'93I\'92m glad,\'94 Jack said.\par
Once in Jack\'92s building, Jack had to struggle with Laurie\'92s suitcase up the cluttered stairs. After a series of exaggerated grunts and groans, Laurie asked him if he wanted her to carry it. Jack told her that her punishment for packing such a heavy bag was to listen to him complain.\par
Eventually, he got it outside his door. He fumbled for his key, got it into the cylinder and turned. He heard the dead bolt snap back.\par
\'93Hmmm,\'94 he commented. \'93I don\'92t remember double-locking the door.\'94 He turned the key again to release the latch bolt and pushed open the door. Because of the darkness, he preceded Laurie into the apartment to flip on the light. Laurie followed and collided with him because he\'92d stopped suddenly.\par
\'93Go ahead, turn it on,\'94 a voice said.\par
Jack complied. The silhouettes he\'92d glimpsed a moment before were now men dressed in long, dark coats. They were seated on Jack\'92s sofa, facing into the room.\par
\'93Oh my god!\'94 Laurie said. \'93It\'92s them!\'94\par
Franco and Angelo had made themselves at home, just as they had at Laurie\'92s. They\'92d even helped themselves to beers. The half-empty bottles were on the coffee table, along with a handgun and its attached silencer. A straight-backed chair had been brought into the center of the room to face the couch.\par
\'93I assume you are Dr. Jack Stapleton,\'94 Franco said.\par
Jack nodded, as his mind began to go over ways of handling the situation. He knew the front door behind him was still ajar. He berated himself for not being more suspicious to have found it double-locked. The problem was he\'92d gone out so quickly, he couldn\'92t remember which locks he\'92d secured.\par
\'93Don\'92t do anything foolish,\'94 Franco admonished as if reading Jack\'92s mind. \'93We won\'92t be staying long. And if we\'92d known that Dr. Montgomery was going to be here, we could have saved ourselves a trip to her place, not to mention the effort of going over the same message twice.\'94\par
\'93What is it you people are afraid we might learn that makes you want to come and threaten us?\'94 Jack asked.\par
Franco smiled and looked at Angelo. \'93Can you believe this guy? He thinks we made all this effort to get in here to answer questions.\'94\par
\'93No respect,\'94 Angelo said.\par
\'93Doc, how about getting another chair for the lady,\'94 Franco said to Jack. \'93Then we can have our little talk, and we\'92ll be on our way.\'94\par
Jack didn\'92t move. He was thinking about the gun on the coffee table and wondering which of the men was still armed. As he tried to gauge their strength, he noticed that both were on the thin side. He figured they were most likely out of shape.\par
\'93Excuse me, Doc,\'94 Franco said. \'93Are you with us or what?\'94\par
Before Jack could answer, there was commotion behind him and someone roughly bumped him to the side. Another person shouted: \'93Nobody move!\'94\par
Jack recovered from his momentary confusion to comprehend that three African-Americans had leaped into the room, each armed with machine pistols. The guns were trained unwaveringly on Franco and Angelo. These newcomers were all dressed in basketball gear, and Jack quickly recognized them. It was Flash, David, and Spit, all of whom were still sweating from activity on the playground.\par
Franco and Angelo were taken completely unawares. They simply sat there, eyes wide. Since they were accustomed to being on the other side of lethal weapons, they knew enough not to move.\par
For a moment there was frozen silence. Then Warren strutted in. \'93Man, Doc, keeping you alive has become a full-time job, you know what I\'92m saying? And I\'92m going to have to tell you, you\'92re dragging down the neighborhood, bringing in this kind of white trash.\'94\par
Warren took the machine pistol away from Spit and told Spit to frisk the visitors. Wordlessly, Spit relieved Angelo of his Walther auto pistol. After frisking Franco, he collected the gun from the coffee table.\par
Jack noisily let out a breath of air. \'93Warren, old sport, I don\'92t know how you manage to drop in on such a timely basis in my life, but it\'92s appreciated.\'94\par
\'93These scumbags were seen casing this place earlier tonight,\'94 Warren explained. \'93It\'92s as if they think they\'92re invisible, despite their expensive threads and that big, black, shiny Cadillac. It\'92s kind of a joke.\'94\par
Jack rubbed his hands together in appreciation of the sudden change of power. He asked Angelo and Franco their names but got cold stares in return.\par
\'93That one is Angelo Facciolo,\'94 Laurie said, while pointing toward her nemesis.\par
\'93Spit, get their wallets,\'94 Warren ordered.\par
Spit complied and read out their names and addresses. \'93Uh-oh, what\'92s this?\'94 he questioned when he opened the wallet containing the Ozone Park police badge. He held it up for Warren to see.\par
\'93They\'92re not police officers,\'94 Warren said with a wave of dismissal. \'93Don\'92t worry.\'94\par
\'93Laurie,\'94 Jack said. \'93I think it\'92s time to give Lou a call. I\'92m sure he\'92d like nothing better than to talk with these gentlemen. And tell him to bring the paddy wagon in case he\'92d like to invite them to stay the night at the city\'92s expense.\'94\par
Laurie disappeared into the kitchen.\par
Jack walked over to Angelo and towered above him.\par
\'93Stand up,\'94 Jack said.\par
Angelo got to his feet and glowered insolently at Jack. To everyone\'92s surprise, especially Angelo, Jack sucker punched him as hard as he could in the face. There was a crunching sound as Angelo was knocked backward over the sofa to land in a heap on the floor.\par
Jack winced, cursed, and grabbed his hand. Then he shook it up and down. \'93Jeez,\'94 he complained. \'93I\'92ve never hit anybody like that. It hurts!\'94\par
\'93Hold up,\'94 Warren warned Jack. \'93I don\'92t like beatin\'92 on these dog turds. It\'92s not my style.\'94\par
\'93I\'92m all done,\'94 Jack said, still shaking his injured hand. \'93You see, that dog turd on the other side of the couch beat up on Laurie earlier this evening after they broke into her apartment. I\'92m sure you noticed her face.\'94\par
Angelo pushed himself up to a sitting position. His nose angled to the right. Jack invited him to come back around the couch and sit down. Angelo moved slowly, while cupping his hand beneath his nose to catch the dripping blood.\par
\'93Now, before the police get here,\'94 Jack said to the two men, \'93I\'92d like to ask you guys again about what you\'92re afraid Laurie and I might learn. What is going on with this Franconi nonsense?\'94\par
Angelo and Franco stared at Jack as if he weren\'92t there. Jack persisted and asked what they knew about Franconi\'92s liver, but the men remained stone silent.\par
Laurie returned from the kitchen. \'93I got Lou,\'94 she reported. \'93He\'92s on his way, and I have to say he\'92s excited, especially about the Vido Delbario tip.\'94\par
\par
\pard\qj An hour later, Jack found himself comfortably ensconced in Esteban Ndeme\'92s apartment along with Laurie and Warren.\par
\pard\fi283\qj\'93Sure, I\'92ll have another beer,\'94 Jack said in response to Esteban\'92s offer. Jack was feeling a pleasant buzz from his first beer and progressively euphoric that the evening had worked out so auspiciously after such a bad start.\par
Lou had arrived at Jack\'92s with several patrolmen less than twenty minutes after Laurie\'92s call. He\'92d been ecstatic to take Angelo and Franco downtown to book them on breaking and entering, possession of unauthorized firearms, assault and battery, extortion, and impersonation of a police officer. His hope was to hold them long enough to get some real information out of them about New York City organized crime, particularly the Lucia organization.\par
Lou had been disturbed by the threats Laurie and Jack had received, so when Jack mentioned that he and Laurie were thinking of going out of town for a week or so, Lou was all for it. Lou was concerned enough that in the interim, he\'92d assigned a guard for Laurie and Jack. To make the job easier, Jack and Laurie agreed to stay together.\par
At Jack\'92s urging, Warren had taken him and Laurie to the Mercado Market and to meet Esteban Ndeme. As Warren had intimated, Esteban was an amiable and gracious man. He was close to Jack\'92s age of forty-two, but his body type was the opposite of Jack\'92s. Where Jack was stocky, Esteban was slender. Even his facial features seemed delicate. His skin was a deep, rich brown, many shades darker than Warren\'92s. But his most noticeable physical trait was his high-domed forehead. He\'92d lost his hair in the front so that his hairline ran from ear to ear over the top of his head.\par
As soon as he\'92d learned Jack was considering a trip to Equatorial Guinea, he\'92d invited Jack, Laurie, and Warren back to his apartment.\par
Teodora Ndeme had turned out to be as congenial as her husband. After the group had been in the apartment for only a short time, she\'92d insisted everyone stay for dinner.\par
With savory aromas drifting from the kitchen, Jack sat back contentedly with a second beer. \'93What brought you and Teodora to New York City?\'94 he asked Esteban.\par
\'93We had to flee our country,\'94 Esteban said. He went on to describe the reign of terror of the ruthless dictator Nguema that forced a third of the population, including all of Spanish descent, to leave. \'93Fifty thousand people were murdered,\'94 Esteban said. \'93It was terrible. We were lucky to get out. I was a schoolteacher trained in Spain and therefore suspect.\'94\par
\'93Things have changed, I hope,\'94 Jack said.\par
\'93Oh, yes,\'94 Esteban said. \'93A coup in 1979 has changed a lot. But it is a poor country, although there is some talk of offshore oil, as was discovered off Gabon. Gabon is now the wealthiest country in the region.\'94\par
\'93Have you been back?\'94 Jack asked.\par
\'93Several times,\'94 Esteban said. \'93The last time, a few years ago,\'94 Esteban said. \'93Teodora and I still have family there. Teodora\'92s brother even has a small hotel on the mainland in a town called Bata.\'94\par
\'93I\'92ve heard of Bata,\'94 Jack said. \'93I understand it has an airport.\'94\par
\'93The only one on the mainland,\'94 Esteban said. \'93It was built in the eighties for a Central African Congress. Of course, the country couldn\'92t afford it, but that is another story.\'94\par
\'93Have you heard of a company called GenSys?\'94 Jack asked.\par
\'93Most definitely,\'94 Esteban said. \'93It is the major source of foreign currency for the government, especially since cocoa and coffee prices have fallen.\'94\par
\'93So I\'92ve heard,\'94 Jack said. \'93I\'92ve also heard GenSys has a primate farm. Do you know if that is in Bata?\'94\par
\'93No, it is in the south,\'94 Esteban said. \'93They built it in the jungle near an old deserted Spanish town called Cogo. They have rebuilt much of the town for their people from America and Europe, and they have built a new town for local people who work for them. They employ many Equatoguinean people.\'94\par
\'93Do you know if GenSys built a hospital?\'94 Jack asked.\par
\'93Yes, they did,\'94 Esteban said. \'93They built a hospital and laboratory on the old town square facing the town hall.\'94\par
\'93How do you know so much about it?\'94 Jack asked.\par
\'93Because my cousin used to work there,\'94 Esteban said. \'93But he quit when the soldiers executed one of his friends for hunting. A lot of people like GenSys because they pay well, but others don\'92t like GenSys because they have too much power with the government.\'94\par
\'93Because of money,\'94 Jack said.\par
\'93Yes, of course,\'94 Esteban said. \'93They pay a lot of money to the ministers. They even pay part of the army.\'94\par
\'93That\'92s cozy,\'94 Laurie commented.\par
\'93If we were to go to Bata, would we be able to visit Cogo?\'94 Jack asked.\par
\'93I suppose,\'94 Esteban said. \'93After the Spanish left twenty-five years ago, the road to Cogo was abandoned and became impassable, but GenSys has rebuilt it so the trucks can go back and forth. But you\'92d have to hire a car.\'94\par
\'93Is that possible?\'94 Jack asked.\par
\'93If you have money, anything is possible in Equatorial Guinea,\'94 Esteban said. \'93When are you planning to go? Because it\'92s best to go in the dry season.\'94\par
\'93When\'92s that?\'94 Jack asked.\par
\'93February and March,\'94 Esteban said.\par
\'93That\'92s convenient,\'94 Jack said. \'93Because Laurie and I are thinking of going tomorrow night.\'94\par
\'93What?\'94 Warren spoke for the first time since they\'92d arrived at Esteban\'92s apartment. He\'92d not been privy to Jack and Lou\'92s conversation. \'93I thought me and Natalie were going out on the town with you guys this weekend. I\'92ve already told Natalie.\'94\par
\'93Ohhhh!\'94 Jack commented. \'93I forgot about that.\'94\par
\'93Hey, man, you gotta wait \'92til after Saturday night, otherwise I\'92m in deep shit, you know what I\'92m saying. I told you how much she\'92s been ragging on me to see you guys.\'94\par
In his euphoric mood Jack had another suggestion. \'93I have a better idea. Why don\'92t you and Natalie come along with Laurie and me to Equatorial Guinea? It will be our treat.\'94\par
Laurie blinked. She wasn\'92t sure she\'92d heard correctly.\par
\'93Man, what are you talking about?\'94 Warren said. \'93You\'92re out\'92a your friggin\'92 mind. You\'92re talking about Africa.\'94\par
\'93Yeah, Africa,\'94 Jack said. \'93If Laurie and I have to go, we might as well make it as fun as possible. In fact, Esteban, why don\'92t you and your wife come, too? We\'92ll make it a party.\'94\par
\'93Are you serious?\'94 Esteban asked.\par
Laurie\'92s expression was equally as incredulous.\par
\'93Sure, I\'92m serious,\'94 Jack said. \'93The best way to visit a country is to go with someone who used to live there. That\'92s no secret. But tell me, do we all need visas?\'94\par
\'93Yes, but the Equatorial Guinean Embassy is here in New York,\'94 Esteban said. \'93Two pictures, twenty-five dollars, and a letter from a bank saying you\'92re not poor gets you a visa.\'94\par
\'93How do you get to Equatorial Guinea?\'94 Jack asked.\par
\'93For Bata the easiest is through Paris,\'94 Esteban said. \'93From Paris there is daily service to Douala, Cameroon. From Douala there\'92s daily service to Bata. You can go through Madrid, too, but that\'92s only twice a week to Malabo on Bioko.\'94\par
\'93Sounds like Paris wins out,\'94 Jack said gaily.\par
\'93Teodora!\'94 Esteban called out to his wife in the kitchen. \'93You\'92d better come in here.\'94\par
\'93You\'92re crazy, man,\'94 Warren said to Jack. \'93I knew it the first day you walked out on that basketball court. But, you know something, I\'92m beginning to like it.\'94\par
\par
\par
\pard\qj\fs32 CHAPTER 17\par
\pard\fi283\qj\fs24\par
\pard\qr MARCH 7, 1997\par
6:15 A.M.\par
COGO, EQUATORIAL GUINEA\par
\pard\fi283\qj\par
\pard\qj KEVIN\'92S alarm went off at six-fifteen. It was still completely dark outside. Emerging from his mosquito net, he turned on the light to find his robe and slippers. A cottony feeling in his mouth and a mild bitemporal headache reminded him of the wine he\'92d drunk the night before. With a shaky hand he took a long drink of the water he had at his bedside. Thus fortified, he set out on shaky legs to knock on his guest rooms\'92 doors.\par
\pard\fi283\qj The previous night, he and the women had decided that it made sense for Melanie and Candace to spend the night. Kevin had plenty of room, and they all agreed being together would make the departure in the morning far easier and probably elicit less attention. Consequently, at about eleven \scaps p.m\scaps0 ., amid lots of laughter and gaiety, Kevin had driven the women to their respective quarters to collect their overnight necessities, a change of clothes, and the food they\'92d gotten from the commissary.\par
While the women had been packing, Kevin had made a quick detour to his lab to get the locator, the directional beacon, a flashlight, and the contour map.\par
On each guest room door, Kevin had to knock twice. Once quite softly, and when there was no response, he rapped more vigorously until he heard a response. He sensed the women were hungover, especially after it took them significantly longer than they planned to show up in the kitchen. Both of them poured themselves a mug of coffee and drank the first cup without conversation.\par
After breakfast they all revived significantly. In fact, as they emerged from Kevin\'92s house they felt exhilarated, as if they were setting off on a holiday. The weather was as good as could be expected in that part of the world. Dawn was breaking and the pink and silver sky was generally clear overhead. To the south, there was a line of small puffy clouds. On the horizon to the west, there were ominous purple storm clouds, but they were way out over the ocean and would most likely stay there for the day.\par
As they walked toward the waterfront, they were enthralled by the profusion of bird life. There were blue turacos, parrots, weaverbirds, African fish eagles, and a kind of African blackbird. The air was filled with their color and shrieks.\par
The town seemed deserted. There were no pedestrians or vehicles, and the homes were still shuttered against the night. The only person they saw was a local mopping the floor in the Chickee Hut Bar.\par
They walked out on the impressive pier GenSys had built. It was twenty feet wide and six feet high. The rough-hewn planks were wet from the humid night air. At the end of the pier, there was a wooden ramp that led down to a floating dock. The dock seemed to be mysteriously suspended; the surface of the perfectly calm water was hidden by a layer of mist that extended as far as the eye could see.\par
As the women had promised, there was a motorized thirty-foot-long pirogue languidly moored to the end of the dock. Long ago, it had been painted red with a white interior, but the paint had faded or had been scraped off in large areas. A thatched roof supported by wooden poles extended over three-quarters of the boat\'92s length. Under the shelter were benches. The motor was an antique Evinrude outboard. Tethered to the stern was a small canoe with four narrow benches extending from gunwale to gunwale.\par
\'93Not bad, eh?\'94 Melanie said, as she grabbed the mooring line and pulled the boat to the dock.\par
\'93It\'92s bigger than I expected,\'94 Kevin said. \'93As long as the motor keeps going, we should be fine. I wouldn\'92t want to paddle it very far.\'94\par
\'93Worst-case scenario we float back,\'94 Melanie said undaunted. \'93After all, we are going upriver.\'94\par
They got the gear and food aboard. While Melanie continued to stand on the pier, Kevin made his way to the stern to examine the motor. It was self-explanatory with instructions written in English. He put the throttle on start and pulled the cord. To his utter surprise, the engine started. He motioned for Melanie to hop in, shifted the motor into forward, and they were off.\par
As they pulled away from the pier, they all looked back at Cogo to see if anyone took note of their departure. The only person they saw was the lone man cleaning the Chickee Hut, and he didn\'92t bother to look in their direction.\par
As they had planned, they motored west as if they were going to Acalayong. Kevin advanced the throttle to half-open and was pleased at the speed. The pirogue was large and heavy but it had very little draw. He checked the canoe they had in tow; it was riding easily in the water.\par
The sound of the motor made conversation difficult so they were content to enjoy the scenery. The sun had yet to come up, but the sky was brighter and the eastern ends of the cumulus clouds over Gabon were edged in gold. To their right, the shoreline of Equatorial Guinea appeared as a solid mass of vegetation that abruptly dumped into the water. Dotted about the wide estuary were other pirogues moving ghostlike through the mist that still layered the surface of the water.\par
When Cogo had fallen significantly astern, Melanie tapped Kevin on the shoulder. Once she had his attention, she made a wide sweeping motion with her hand. Kevin nodded and began to steer the boat to the south.\par
After traveling south for ten minutes, Kevin began a slow turn to the west. They were now at least a mile offshore, and when they passed Cogo, it was difficult to make out specific buildings.\par
When the sun did finally make its appearance, it was a huge ball of reddish gold. At first, the equatorial mists were so dense that the sun could be examined directly without the need to shield one\'92s eyes. But the heat of the sun began to evaporate the mist which, in turn, rapidly made the sun\'92s rays stronger. Melanie was the first to slip on her sunglasses, but Candace and Kevin quickly did the same. A few minutes later, everyone began to peel off layers of clothing they\'92d donned against the comparative morning chill.\par
To their left was the string of islands that hugged the Equatoguinean coast. Kevin had been steering north to complete the wide circle around Cogo. Now he pushed over the helm to point the bow directly toward Isla Francesca, which loomed in the distance.\par
Once the mists had dissipated from the sun\'92s glare, a welcome breeze stirred the water, and waves began to mar the hitherto glassy surface. Pushing into a mounting headwind the pirogue began to slap against the crests, occasionally sprinkling its passengers with spray.\par
Isla Francesca looked different than her sister islands, and the closer they got, the more apparent it became. Besides being considerably larger, Isla Francesca\'92s limestone escarpment gave it a much more substantial appearance. There were even bits of cloudlike mist that clung to its summits.\par
An hour and fifteen minutes after they had left the pier in Cogo, Kevin cut back on the throttle and the pirogue slowed. A hundred feet ahead was the dense shoreline of the southwestern tip of Isla Francesca.\par
\'93From this vantage point it looks sort of forbidding,\'94 Melanie yelled over the sound of the engine.\par
Kevin nodded. There was nothing about the island that was inviting. There was no beach. The entire shoreline appeared to be covered with dense mangroves.\par
\'93We\'92ve got to find Rio Diviso\'92s outlet,\'94 Kevin yelled back. After approaching the mangroves as close as he thought prudent, he pushed the helm to starboard and headed along the western shore. In the lee of the island, the waves disappeared. Kevin stood up in hopes of seeing possible underwater obstructions. But he couldn\'92t. The water was an impenetrable muddy color.\par
\'93What about where all those bulrushes are?\'94 Candace called out from the bow. She pointed ahead to an expansive marsh that had appeared.\par
Kevin nodded and cut back on the throttle even farther. He nosed the boat toward the six-foot reeds.\par
\'93Can you see any obstructions underwater?\'94 he called out to Candace.\par
Candace shook her head. \'93It\'92s too murky,\'94 she said.\par
Kevin turned the boat so that they were again moving parallel with the island shoreline. The reeds were dense, and the marsh now extended inland for a hundred yards.\par
\'93This must be the river outlet,\'94 Kevin said. \'93I hope there is a channel or we\'92re out of luck. There\'92s no way we could get the canoe through those reeds.\'94\par
Ten minutes later, without having found a break in the reeds, Kevin turned the boat around. He was careful not to foul the towline for the small canoe.\par
\'93I don\'92t want to go any further in this direction,\'94 Kevin said. \'93The width of the marsh is decreasing. I don\'92t think we\'92re going to find a channel. Besides, I\'92m afraid of getting too close to the staging area where the bridge is.\'94\par
\'93I agree,\'94 Melanie said. \'93What about going to the other end of the island where Rio Diviso has its inlet?\'94\par
\'93That was exactly my thought,\'94 Kevin said.\par
Melanie raised her hand.\par
\'93What are you doing?\'94 Kevin asked.\par
\'93It\'92s called a high five, you jerk,\'94 Melanie teased.\par
Kevin slapped her hand with his and laughed.\par
They motored back the way they\'92d come and rounded the island to head east along its length. Kevin opened up the throttle to about half speed. The route gave them a good view of the southern aspect of the island\'92s mountainous backbone. From that angle, no limestone was visible. The island appeared to be an uninterrupted mountain of virgin jungle.\par
\'93All I see are birds,\'94 Melanie yelled over the sound of the engine.\par
Kevin nodded. He\'92d seen lots of ibises and shrikes.\par
The sun had now risen enough so that the thatched shelter was useful. They all crowded into the stern to take advantage of the shade. Candace put on some sunblock that Kevin had found in his medicine cabinet.\par
\'93Do you think the bonobos on the island are going to be as skittish as bonobos normally are?\'94 Melanie yelled.\par
Kevin shrugged. \'93I wish I knew,\'94 he yelled back. \'93If they are, it might be difficult for us to see any of them, and all this effort will have been in vain.\par
\'93They did have diminishing contact with humans until they were there in the bonobo enclosure at the animal center,\'94 Melanie yelled. \'93I think we have a good chance as long as we don\'92t try to get too close.\'94\par
\'93Are bonobos timid in the wild?\'94 Candace asked Melanie.\par
\'93Very much so,\'94 Melanie said. \'93As much or more than chimpanzees. Chimps unexposed to humans are almost impossible to see in the wild. They\'92re inordinately timid, and their sense of hearing and smell is so much more acute than ours that people cannot get near them.\'94\par
\'93Are there still truly wild areas left in Africa?\'94 Candace asked.\par
\'93Oh, my Lord, yes!\'94 Melanie said. \'93Essentially, from this coastal part of Equatorial Guinea and extending west northwest there are huge tracts that are still essentially unexplored virginal rain forest. We\'92re talking about as much as a million square miles.\'94\par
\'93How long is that going to last?\'94 Candace questioned.\par
\'93That\'92s another story,\'94 Melanie said.\par
\'93How about handing me a cold drink,\'94 Kevin yelled.\par
\'93Coming up,\'94 Candace said. She moved over to the Styrofoam chest and lifted the lid.\par
Twenty minutes later, Kevin again throttled back on the motor and turned north around the eastern end of Isla Francesca. The sun was higher in the sky and it was significantly hotter. Candace pushed the Styrofoam chest over to the port side of the pirogue to keep it in the shade.\par
\'93There\'92s another marsh coming up,\'94 Candace said.\par
\'93I see it,\'94 Kevin said.\par
Kevin again guided the boat in close to the shore. In terms of size, the marsh appeared to be similar to the one on the western end of the island. Once again, the jungle dropped back to approximately a hundred yards from the edge of the water.\par
Just when Kevin was about to announce that they had again been foiled, an opening appeared in the otherwise unremitting wall of reeds.\par
Kevin turned the canoe toward the opening and throttled back even more. The boat slowed. About thirty feet away, Kevin put the motor into neutral and then turned it off.\par
As the sound of the engine died off, they were thrust into a heavy stillness.\par
\'93God, my ears are ringing,\'94 Melanie complained.\par
\'93Does it look like a channel?\'94 Kevin asked Candace, who\'92d again gone up to the bow.\par
\'93It\'92s hard to tell,\'94 Candace said.\par
Kevin grabbed the back of the motor and tilted it up out of the water. He didn\'92t want to foul the propeller in underwater vegetation.\par
The pirogue entered among the reeds. It scraped against the stems, then glided to a halt. Kevin reached behind the boat to keep the towed canoe from banging into the pirogue\'92s stern.\par
\'93It looks like it goes forward in a meandering fashion,\'94 Candace said. She was standing on the gunwale and holding onto the thatched roof of the shelter so she could see over the top of the reeds.\par
Kevin snapped off a stem and broke it into small pieces. He tossed them into the water next to the boat and watched them. They drifted slowly but inexorably in the direction they were pointing.\par
\'93There seems to be some current,\'94 Kevin said. \'93I think that\'92s a good sign. Let\'92s give it a try with the canoe.\'94 Kevin moved the smaller boat alongside the larger.\par
With difficulty because of the canoe\'92s unsteadiness, they managed to get themselves into the smaller boat along with their gear and the food chest. Kevin sat in the stern while Candace took the bow. Melanie sat in the middle but not on one of the seats. Canoes made her nervous; she preferred to sit on the bottom.\par
By a combination of paddling, pulling on reeds, and pulling on the pirogue, they managed to get ahead of the larger boat. Once in what they hoped was the channel, the going was considerably easier.\par
With Kevin paddling in the rear and Candace in the front they were able to move at the pace of a slow walk. The narrow six-foot-wide passage twisted and turned as it worked its way across the marsh. The sun was now evidencing its equatorial power even though it was only eight o\'92clock in the morning. The reeds blocked the breeze, effectively raising the temperature even higher.\par
\'93There\'92re not many trails on this island,\'94 Melanie commented. She\'92d unfolded the contour map and was studying it.\par
\'93The main one is from the staging area to Lago Hippo.\'94 Kevin said.\par
\'93There are a few more,\'94 Melanie said. \'93All leading away from Lago Hippo. I suppose they\'92d been made to facilitate retrievals.\'94\par
\'93That would be my guess,\'94 Kevin said.\par
Kevin looked into the dark water. He could see strands of plant life trailing in the direction they were paddling, suggesting there was current. He was encouraged.\par
\'93Why don\'92t you try the locator?\'94 Kevin said. \'93See if bonobo number sixty has moved since we last checked.\'94\par
Melanie entered the information and clicked.\par
\'93He doesn\'92t appear to have moved,\'94 she said. She reduced the scale until it was equivalent to the scale on the contour map, then located the red dot. \'93He\'92s still in the same spot in the marshy clearing.\'94\par
\'93At least we can solve that mystery, even if we don\'92t see any of the others,\'94 Kevin said.\par
Ahead, they approached the hundred-foot-high wall of jungle. As they rounded the final bend in the marsh, they could see the channel disappear into the riot of vegetation.\par
\'93We\'92ll be in shade in a moment,\'94 Candace said. \'93That should make it a lot cooler.\'94\par
\'93Don\'92t count on it,\'94 Kevin said.\par
Pushing branches to the side, they silently slid into the perpetual darkness of the forest. Contrary to Candace\'92s hopes it was like a muggy, claustrophobic hot house. There was not a breath of air, and everything dripped moisture. Although the thick canopy of tree limbs, twisted vines, and hanging mosses completely blocked the sunlight, it also held in the heat like a heavy woolen blanket. Some of the leaves were up to a foot in diameter. Everyone was shocked by how dark it was in the tunnel of vegetation until their eyes began to adjust. Slowly details appeared out of the dank gloom until the scene resembled late twilight just before night fall.\par
Almost from the moment the first branches snapped in place behind them, they were assaulted by swarms of insects: mosquitoes, deer flies, and trigona bees. Melanie frantically located the insect repellant. After dousing herself, she passed it to the others.\par
\'93It smells like a damn swamp,\'94 Melanie complained.\par
\'93This is scary,\'94 Candace commented from her position in the bow. \'93I just saw a snake, and I hate snakes.\'94\par
\'93As long as we stay in the boat, we\'92ll be fine,\'94 Kevin said.\par
\'93So, let\'92s not tip over,\'94 Melanie said.\par
\'93Don\'92t even suggest it!\'94 Candace moaned. \'93You guys have to remember I\'92m a newcomer. You\'92ve been in this part of the world for years.\'94\par
\'93All we have to worry about are the crocs and hippos,\'94 Kevin said. \'93When you see one, let me know.\'94\par
\'93Oh, great!\'94 Candace complained nervously. \'93And just what do we do when we see one?\'94\par
\'93I didn\'92t mean to worry you,\'94 Kevin said. \'93I don\'92t think we\'92ll see any until we come to the lake.\'94\par
\'93And what then?\'94 Candace questioned. \'93Maybe I should have asked about the dangers of this trip before I signed on.\'94\par
\'93They won\'92t bother us,\'94 Kevin said. \'93At least that\'92s what I\'92ve been told. As long as they are in the water, all we have to do is stay a reasonable distance away. It\'92s when they\'92re caught on land that they can be unpredictably aggressive, and both crocs and hippos can run faster than you\'92d think.\'94\par
\'93All of a sudden, I\'92m not enjoying this at all,\'94 Candace admitted. \'93I thought it was going to be fun.\'94\par
\'93It wasn\'92t supposed to be a picnic,\'94 Melanie said. \'93We\'92re not sightseeing. We\'92re here for a reason.\'94\par
\'93Let\'92s just hope we\'92re successful,\'94 Kevin said. He could appreciate Candace\'92s state of mind. Kevin marveled that he\'92d been talked into coming himself.\par
Besides the insects, the dominant wildlife were the birds. They ceaselessly flitted among the branches, filling the air with melodies.\par
On either side of the channel the forest was impenetrably dense. Only occasionally could Kevin or the others see for more than twenty feet in any direction. Even the shoreline was invisible, hidden behind a tangle of water plants and roots.\par
As he paddled Kevin looked down into the inky water that was covered with a plethora of darting water spiders. The disturbance he caused with each stroke made fetid bubbles rise to the surface.\par
The channel soon became straighter than it had been in the marsh, making the paddling considerably easier. By observing the rate at which they floated by the passing tree trunks, Kevin estimated that they were moving at about the speed of a fast walk. At this rate, he figured they\'92d arrive at the Lago Hippo in ten to fifteen minutes.\par
\'93How about putting the locator on scan?\'94 Kevin suggested to Melanie. \'93If you narrow the graphic to this area, we\'92ll know if there are any bonobos in the neighborhood.\'94\par
Melanie was huddled over the compact computer, when there was a sudden commotion in the branches to their left. A moment later, deeper into the forest, they heard twigs snapping.\par
Candace had a hand clasped to her chest. \'93Oh my,\'94 she said. \'93What the hell was that?\'94\par
\'93I\'92d guess another one of those duikers,\'94 Kevin said. \'93Those little antelopes are common even on these islands.\'94\par
Melanie redirected her attention to the locator. Soon she was able to report that there were no bonobos in the area.\par
\'93Of course not,\'94 Kevin said. \'93That would have been too easy.\'94\par
Twenty minutes later, Candace reported that she could see a lattice of sunlight coming through the branches directly ahead.\par
\'93That must be the lake,\'94 Kevin said.\par
After a few more paddle strokes, the canoe glided out into the open water of Lago Hippo. The trio blinked in the bright sunlight, then scrambled for their sunglasses.\par
The lake was not large. In fact, it was more like an elongated pond dotted with several lushly thicketed islands chock-a-block with white ibises. The shore was lined with dense reeds. Here and there on the surface of the lake were pure white water lilies. Patches of free-floating vegetation thick enough to allow small birds to walk across them turned lazily in slow circles, pushed by the gentle breezes.\par
The wall of surrounding forest dropped away on both sides to form grassy fields, some as big as an acre. A few of these fields were peppered with pockets of palm trees. To the left, above the line of the forest rim, the very top of the limestone escarpment was clearly discernable against the hazy morning sky.\par
\'93It\'92s actually quite beautiful,\'94 Melanie said.\par
\'93It reminds me of paintings of prehistoric times,\'94 Kevin said. \'93I could almost imagine a couple of brontosauruses in the foreground.\'94\par
\'93Oh my god, I see hippos over to the left!\'94 Candace called out with alarm. She pointed with her paddle.\par
Kevin looked in the direction she was indicating. Sure enough, the heads and small ears of a dozen of these huge mammals were just visible in the water. Standing on their crowns were a number of white birds preening.\par
\'93They\'92re okay,\'94 Kevin assured Candace. \'93See how they are slowly moving away from us. They won\'92t be any trouble.\'94\par
\'93I\'92ve never been much of a nature lover,\'94 Candace admitted.\par
\'93You don\'92t have to explain,\'94 Kevin said. He could remember clearly his unease about wildlife during his first year in Cogo.\par
\'93According to the map, there should be a trail not too far away from the left bank,\'94 Melanie said, while studying the contour map.\par
\'93If I remember correctly, there\'92s a trail that goes around the whole eastern end of the lake,\'94 Kevin said. \'93It originates at the bridge.\'94\par
\'93That\'92s true, but it comes closest to our left,\'94 Melanie said.\par
Kevin angled the canoe toward the left shore and began looking for an opening in the reeds. Unfortunately, there wasn\'92t one.\par
\'93I think we\'92ll just have to try to paddle right through the vegetation,\'94 Kevin said.\par
\'93I\'92m certainly not getting out of this boat until there\'92s dry land,\'94 Melanie announced.\par
Kevin told Candace not to paddle as he aimed the canoe at the six-foot-high wall of reeds and took a number of forceful strokes. To everyone\'92s surprise, the boat skimmed through the vegetation with no trouble at all, despite the scraping noise of the reeds on the hull. Sooner than they expected, they bumped against dry land.\par
\'93That was easy,\'94 Kevin said. He looked behind at the path they\'92d created to the lake, but already the reeds were springing back to their original position.\par
\'93Am I supposed to get out?\'94 Candace said. \'93I can\'92t see the ground. What if there are bugs and snakes?\'94\par
\'93Make yourself a clearing with your paddle,\'94 Kevin suggested.\par
As soon as Candace climbed out of the bow, Kevin paddled against the vegetation and succeeded to force the canoe still further onto the shore. Melanie got out easily.\par
\'93What about the food?\'94 Kevin asked as he moved forward.\par
\'93Let\'92s leave it here,\'94 Melanie said. \'93Just bring the bag with the directional beacon and flashlight. I\'92ve got the locator and the contour map.\'94\par
The women waited for Kevin to get out of the boat, then motioned for him to go ahead of them. With the gear bag over his shoulder, he pushed aside the reeds and began moving inland. The ground was marshy and the muck sucked at his shoes. But within ten feet, he emerged onto the grassy field.\par
\'93This looks like a field, but it\'92s actually a swamp,\'94 Melanie complained as she looked down at her tennis shoes. They were already black with mud and completely soaked.\par
Kevin struggled with the contour map to get his bearings, then pointed off to the right. \'93The transmitting chip from bonobo number sixty should be no more than a hundred feet from here in the direction of that cul de sac of trees,\'94 he said.\par
\'93Let\'92s get this over with,\'94 Melanie said. With her new tennis shoes ruined, even she was beginning to question if they should have come. In Africa, nothing was easy.\par
Kevin struck off with the women following. At first, walking was difficult because of the unstable footing. Although the grass appeared generally uniform, it grew in small, lumpy hummocks surrounded by muddy water. But the going became easier about fifty feet from the pond, where the ground rose and became comparatively drier. A moment later, they came across a trail.\par
They were surprised to discover that the trail looked well-used. It ran parallel with the shoreline of the lake.\par
\'93Siegfried must send work crews out here more than we thought,\'94 Melanie said. \'93This trail has been maintained.\'94\par
\'93I\'92d have to agree,\'94 Kevin said. \'93I suppose they\'92d need to keep them up for retrievals. The jungle is so thick and grows so fast out here. Lucky for us, they\'92ll certainly help us get around as well. As I recall, this one heads up to the limestone cliff.\'94\par
\'93If they come out here to maintain trails, maybe there is something to Siegfried\'92s story about workmen making the fires,\'94 Melanie said.\par
\'93Wouldn\'92t that be nice,\'94 Kevin said.\par
\'93I smell something bad,\'94 Candace said, while sniffing the air. \'93In fact, it smells putrid.\'94\par
Hesitantly, the others sniffed and agreed.\par
\'93That\'92s not a good sign,\'94 Melanie said.\par
Kevin nodded and moved off in the direction of the cul de sac. A few minutes later, with their fingers pinching their nostrils shut, the three stared down at a disgusting sight: It was the remains of bonobo number sixty. The carcass was in the process of being devoured by insects. Larger scavengers had also taken a toll.\par
Far more gruesome than the state of the corpse was the evidence of how the animal had died. A wedge-shaped piece of limestone had struck the poor creature between the eyes effectively splitting his head in two. The rock was still in place. Exposed soft eyeballs stared off in opposite directions.\par
\'93Ugh!\'94 Melanie said. \'93It\'92s what we didn\'92t want to see. This suggests that not only the bonobos have split into two groups, but they\'92re killing each other. I wonder if number sixty-seven is dead, too.\'94\par
Kevin kicked the rock out of the decomposing head. All three stared at it.\par
\'93That\'92s also what we didn\'92t want to see,\'94 Kevin said.\par
\'93What are you talking about?\'94 Candace asked.\par
\'93That rock was shaped artificially,\'94 Kevin said. With the toe of his shoe, he pointed to an area along the side of the rock where there appeared to be freshly made gouges. \'93That suggests tool-making.\'94\par
\'93More circumstantial evidence I\'92m afraid,\'94 Melanie said.\par
\'93Let\'92s move upwind,\'94 Kevin managed. \'93Before I get sick. I can\'92t stand this smell.\'94\par
Kevin got three steps away in an easterly direction when someone grabbed his arm and yanked him to a stop. He turned to see Melanie with her index finger pressed against her lips. Then she pointed to the south.\par
Kevin turned his gaze in that direction, then caught his breath. About fifty yards away in the shadows of the very back of the cul de sac was one of the bonobos! The animal was standing ramrod straight and absolutely motionless, as if he were a military honor guard. He appeared to be staring back at Kevin and the others just as they were staring at him.\par
Kevin was surprised at the creature\'92s size. The animal was well over five feet tall. It also seemed oversized in terms of weight. Given its enormously muscular torso, Kevin guessed the bonobo weighed between one hundred twenty-five and one hundred fifty pounds.\par
\'93He\'92s taller than the bonobos that have been brought in for transplant surgery,\'94 Candace said. \'93At least I think he is. Of course, the bonobos for the transplants were already sedated and strapped to a gurney by the time they got to me.\'94\par
\'93Shhhhhh,\'94 Melanie admonished. \'93Let\'92s not scare him. This might be our only chance to see one.\'94\par
Being careful not to move too quickly, Kevin pulled the gear bag off his shoulder and got out the directional beacon. He turned it on to scan. It began to quietly beep until he pointed it toward the bonobo; then it let out a continuous note. Kevin looked at the LCD screen and gasped.\par
\'93What\'92s the matter?\'94 Melanie whispered. She had seen Kevin\'92s expression change.\par
\'93It\'92s number one!\'94 Kevin whispered back. \'93It\'92s my double.\'94\par
\'93Oh my god!\'94 Melanie whispered. \'93I\'92m jealous. I\'92d like to see mine, too.\'94\par
\'93I wish we could see better,\'94 Candace said. \'93Do we dare try to get closer?\'94\par
Kevin was struck by two things. First was the coincidence that the first live bonobo they\'92d come across would happen to be his double. Secondly, if he had inadvertently created a race of protohumans, then he was in some metamorphic way meeting himself six million years earlier. \'93This is too much,\'94 Kevin couldn\'92t help but whisper aloud.\par
\'93What are you talking about?\'94 Melanie asked.\par
\'93In some ways that\'92s me standing over there,\'94 Kevin answered.\par
\'93Now let\'92s not jump the gun,\'94 Melanie said.\par
\'93He\'92s certainly standing like a human,\'94 Candace remarked. \'93But he\'92s hairier than any human I\'92ve ever been out with.\'94\par
\'93Very funny,\'94 Melanie said without laughing.\par
\'93Melanie, use the locator to scan the area,\'94 Kevin said. \'93Bonobos usually travel together. Maybe there are more around that we can\'92t see. They could be hiding in the bushes.\'94\par
Melanie played with the instrument.\par
\'93I can\'92t believe how still he is,\'94 Candace said.\par
\'93He\'92s probably scared stiff,\'94 Kevin said. \'93I\'92m sure he doesn\'92t know what to make of us. Or if Melanie is right about there not being enough females out here, maybe he\'92s smitten with you two.\'94\par
\'93That I don\'92t find funny at all,\'94 Melanie said, without looking up from the keyboard of the locator.\par
\'93Sorry,\'94 Kevin said.\par
\'93What\'92s he got around his waist?\'94 Candace asked.\par
\'93I was wondering that, too,\'94 Kevin said. \'93I can\'92t make it out, unless it\'92s just a vine that got caught on him when he came through the bushes.\'94\par
\'93Look at this,\'94 Melanie said with excitement. She held up the instrument so the others could see. \'93Kevin, you were right. There\'92s a whole group of bonobos in the trees behind your double.\'94\par
\'93Why would he venture out on his own?\'94 Candace asked.\par
\'93Maybe he\'92s like an alpha male in chimp society,\'94 Melanie said. \'93Since there are so few females, it stands to reason these bonobos might act more like chimps. If that\'92s the case, he might be proving himself to be courageous.\'94\par
Several minutes passed. The bonobo did not move.\par
\'93This is like a Mexican standoff,\'94 Candace complained. \'93Come on! Let\'92s see how close we can get. What do we have to lose? Even if he runs off, I\'92d say this little episode is encouraging that we\'92ll see more.\'94\par
\'93All right,\'94 Kevin said. \'93But no sudden movement. I don\'92t want to scare him. That would only ruin our chances for seeing the others.\'94\par
\'93You guys first,\'94 Candace said.\par
The three advanced carefully, moving forward step by step. Kevin was in the lead followed immediately by Melanie. Candace brought up the rear. When they reached the midway mark, between them and the bonobo, they stopped. Now they could see the bonobo much better. He had prominent eyebrows and a sloped forehead like a chimp, but the lower half of his face was significantly less prognathous than even a normal bonobo. His nose was flat, his nostrils flared. His ears were smaller than those of either chimps or bonobos and flush against the side of his head.\par
\'93Are you guys thinking what I\'92m thinking?\'94 Melanie whispered.\par
Candace nodded. \'93He reminds me of the pictures I saw in the third grade. Of very early cavemen.\'94\par
\'93Uh, oh, can you guys see his hands?\'94 Kevin whispered.\par
\'93I think so,\'94 Candace said softly. \'93What\'92s wrong with them?\'94\par
\'93It\'92s the thumb,\'94 Kevin whispered. \'93It\'92s not like a chimp\'92s. His thumb juts out from the palm.\'94\par
\'93You\'92re right,\'94 Melanie whispered. \'93And that means he might be able to oppose his thumb with his fingers.\'94\par
\'93Good god! The circumstantial evidence keeps mounting,\'94 Kevin whispered. \'93I suppose if the developmental genes responsible for the anatomical changes necessary for bipedalism are on the short arm of chromosome six, then it\'92s entirely possible that the ones for the opposable thumb are, too.\'94\par
\'93It is a vine around his waist,\'94 Candace commented. \'93Now I can see it clearly.\'94\par
\'93Let\'92s try moving closer,\'94 Melanie suggested.\par
\'93I don\'92t know,\'94 Kevin said. \'93I think we\'92re pushing our luck. Frankly, I\'92m surprised he hasn\'92t bolted already. Maybe we should just sit down right here.\'94\par
\'93It\'92s hotter than blazes here in the sun,\'94 Melanie said. \'93And it\'92s not even nine o\'92clock, so it\'92ll only get worse. When we decide to sit and observe, I vote we do it in the shade. I\'92d also like to have the food chest.\'94\par
\'93I agree,\'94 Candace said.\par
\'93Of course, you agree,\'94 Kevin said mockingly. \'93I\'92d be surprised if you didn\'92t.\'94 Kevin was becoming tired of Melanie making a suggestion only to have Candace eagerly support it. It had already gotten him into trouble.\par
\'93That\'92s not very nice,\'94 Candace said indignantly.\par
\'93I\'92m sorry,\'94 Kevin said. He\'92d not meant to hurt her feelings.\par
\'93Well, I\'92m going closer,\'94 Melanie announced. \'93Jane Goodall was able to get right up next to her chimps.\'94\par
\'93True,\'94 Kevin said. \'93But that was after months of acclimatization.\'94\par
\'93I\'92m still going to try,\'94 Melanie said.\par
Kevin and Candace let Melanie get ten feet in front of them before they looked at each other, shrugged, and joined her.\par
\'93You don\'92t have to do this for me,\'94 Melanie whispered.\par
\'93Actually, I want to get close enough to see if my double has any facial expression,\'94 Kevin whispered. \'93And I want to look into his eyes.\'94\par
With no more talk and by moving slowly and deliberately, the three were able to come within twenty feet of the bonobo. Then they stopped again.\par
\'93This is incredible,\'94 Melanie whispered without taking her eyes from the animal\'92s face. The only way it was apparent the bonobo was alive was an occasional blink, movements of his eyes, and a flaring of his nostrils with each respiration.\par
\'93Look at those pectorals,\'94 Candace said. \'93It looks like he\'92s spent most of his life in a gym.\'94\par
\'93How do you think he got that scar?\'94 Melanie asked.\par
The bonobo had a thick scar that ran down the left side of his face almost to his mouth.\par
Kevin leaned forward and stared into the animal\'92s eyes. They were brown just like his own. Since the sun was in the bonobo\'92s face, his pupils were pinpoint. Kevin strained to detect intelligence, but it was difficult to tell.\par
Without the slightest warning the bonobo suddenly clapped his hands with such force that an echo reverberated between the leafy walls of the cul de sac. At the same time he yelled: \'93Atah!\'94\par
Kevin, Melanie, and Candace leaped from fright. Having worried from the start that the bonobo was about to flee at any moment, they\'92d not considered the possibility of him acting aggressively. The violent clap and yell panicked them, and made them fear the animal was about to attack. But he didn\'92t. He reverted back to his stonelike state.\par
After a moment\'92s confusion they recovered a semblance of their previous poise. They eyed the bonobo nervously.\par
\'93What was that all about?\'94 Melanie asked.\par
\'93I don\'92t think he\'92s as scared of us as we\'92d thought,\'94 Candace said. \'93Maybe we should just back away.\'94\par
\'93I agree,\'94 Kevin said uneasily. \'93But let\'92s go slowly. Don\'92t panic.\'94 Following his own advice, he took a few careful steps backward and motioned for the women to do likewise.\par
The bonobo responded by reaching around behind his back and grabbing a tool he had suspended by the vine around his waist. He held the tool aloft over his head and cried \'93Atah\'94 again.\par
The three froze, wide-eyed with terror.\par
\'93What can \'91Atah\'92 mean?\'94 Melanie whined after a few moments when nothing happened. \'93Can it be a word? Could he be talking?\'94\par
\'93I don\'92t have any idea,\'94 Kevin sputtered. \'93But at least he hasn\'92t come toward us.\'94\par
\'93What is he holding?\'94 Candace asked apprehensively. \'93It looks like a hammer.\'94\par
\'93It is,\'94 Kevin managed. \'93It\'92s a regular carpenter\'92s clawhammer. It must be one of the tools the bonobos stole when the bridge was being built.\'94\par
\'93Look at the way he is grasping it. Just the way you or I would,\'94 Melanie said. \'93There\'92s no question he has an opposable thumb.\'94\par
\'93We got to get away from here!\'94 Candace half cried. \'93You two promised me these creatures were timid. This guy is anything but!\'94\par
\'93Don\'92t run!\'94 Kevin said, keeping his eyes glued to the bonobo\'92s.\par
\'93You can stay if you want, but I\'92m going back to the boat,\'94 Candace said desperately.\par
\'93We\'92ll all go, but slowly,\'94 Kevin said.\par
Despite warnings not to do so, Candace turned on her heels and started to run. But she only went a few steps before she froze and let out a scream.\par
Kevin and Melanie turned in her direction. Both of them caught their breaths when they saw what had shocked her: Twenty more bonobos had silently emerged from the surrounding forest and had arrayed themselves in an arc, effectively blocking the exit from the cul de sac.\par
Candace slowly backed up until she bumped against Melanie.\par
For a full minute no one spoke or moved, not even any of the bonobos. Then bonobo number one repeated his cry: \'93Atah!\'94 Instantly, the animals began to circle around the humans.\par
Candace moaned as she, Kevin, and Melanie backed into each other, forming a tight triangle. The ring the animals formed around them began to close like a noose. The bonobos came closer a step at a time. The humans could now distinctly smell them. Their odor was strong and feral. The animals\'92 faces were expressionless but intent. Their eyes flashed.\par
The animals stopped advancing when they were an arm\'92s length from the three friends. Their eyes ran up and down the humans\'92 bodies. Some of them were holding stone wedges similar to the one that had killed bonobo number sixty.\par
Kevin, Melanie, and Candace did not move. They were paralyzed with fear. All the animals looked as powerful as bonobo number one.\par
Bonobo number one remained outside the tight ring. He was still clutching the clawhammer but no longer had it raised over his head. He advanced and made a full circuit of the group, staring at the humans between the heads of his compatriots. Then he let out a string of sounds accompanied by hand gestures.\par
Several of the other animals answered him. Then one of them reached out his hand toward Candace. Candace moaned.\par
\'93Don\'92t move,\'94 Kevin managed to say. \'93I think the fact that they haven\'92t harmed us is a good sign.\'94\par
Candace swallowed with difficulty as the bonobo\'92s hand caressed her hair. He seemed enthralled by its blond color. It took all the resolve she could muster not to scream or duck away.\par
Another animal began to speak and gesture. He then pointed to his side. Kevin saw a long healing surgical scar. \'93It\'92s the animal whose kidney went to the Dallas businessman,\'94 Kevin said fearfully. \'93See how he\'92s pointing at us. I think he\'92s connecting us to the retrieval process.\'94\par
\'93That can\'92t be good,\'94 Melanie whispered.\par
Another animal reached out tentatively and touched Kevin\'92s comparatively hairless forearm. Then he touched the directional beacon Kevin was holding in his hand. Kevin was surprised when he didn\'92t try to take it away from him.\par
The bonobo standing directly in front of Melanie reached out and pinched the fabric of her blouse between his thumb and forefinger as if feeling its texture. Then he gently touched the locator she was holding with just the tip of his index finger.\par
\'93They seem mystified by us,\'94 Kevin said hesitantly. \'93And strangely respectful. I don\'92t think they are going to hurt us. Maybe they think we are gods.\'94\par
\'93How can we encourage that belief?\'94 Melanie asked.\par
\'93I\'92ll try to give them something,\'94 Kevin said. Kevin considered the objects he had on his person and immediately settled on his wristwatch. Moving slowly, he put the directional beacon under his arm and slipped the watch from his wrist. Holding it by its bracelet, he extended it toward the animal in front of him.\par
The animal tilted his head, eyeing the watch, then reached for it. No sooner had he had it in his hand than bonobo number one vocalized the sound: \'93Ot.\'94 The animal with the watch responded by quickly giving it up. Bonobo number one examined the watch, then slipped it onto his forearm.\par
\'93My god!\'94 Kevin voiced. \'93My double is wearing my watch. This is a nightmare.\'94\par
Bonobo number one appeared to admire the watch for a moment. Then he brought his thumbs and forefinger together to form a circle while saying: \'93Randa.\'94\par
One of the bonobos immediately ran off and disappeared for a moment into the forest. When he reappeared, he was carrying a length of rope.\par
\'93Rope?\'94 Kevin said with trepidation. \'93Now what?\'94\par
\'93Where did they get rope?\'94 Melanie asked.\par
\'93They probably stole it with the tools,\'94 Kevin said.\par
\'93What are they going to do?\'94 Candace asked nervously.\par
The bonobo went directly to Kevin and looped the rope around his waist. Kevin watched with a mixture of fear and admiration as the animal tied a crude knot and then cinched it tight against Kevin\'92s abdomen.\par
Kevin looked up at the women. \'93Don\'92t struggle,\'94 he said. \'93I think everything is going to be okay as long as we don\'92t anger them or scare them.\'94\par
\'93But I don\'92t want to be tied up,\'94 Candace cried.\par
\'93As long as we\'92re not hurt it\'92s okay,\'94 Melanie said, hoping to calm Candace.\par
The bonobo roped Melanie and then Candace in a similar fashion. When he was finished, he stepped back, still holding the long end of the rope.\par
\'93Obviously, they want us to stay for a while,\'94 Kevin said, trying to make light of the situation.\par
\'93Don\'92t be mad if I don\'92t laugh,\'94 Melanie said.\par
\'93At least they don\'92t mind our talking,\'94 Kevin said.\par
\'93Strangely enough, they seem to find it interesting,\'94 Melanie said. Each time one of them spoke the nearest bonobo would cock its head as if listening.\par
Bonobo number one suddenly opened and closed his fingers while sweeping his hands away from his chest. At the same time he said: \'93Arak.\'94\par
Immediately, the group started moving, including the animal holding the rope. Kevin, Melanie, and Candace were forced forward.\par
\'93That gesture was the same as the bonobo did in the operating room,\'94 Candace said.\par
\'93Then it must mean \'91go\'92 or \'91move\'92 or \'91away,\'92\~\'94 Kevin said. \'93It\'92s incredible. They\'92re speaking!\'94\par
They left the cul de sac and moved across the field until they came to the trail. At that point they were led right. While they walked, the bonobos remained silent but vigilant.\par
\'93I suspect that it isn\'92t Siegfried who maintains these trails,\'94 Melanie said. \'93I think it\'92s the bonobos.\'94\par
The trail curved to the south and soon entered the jungle. Even in the forest it was well cleared and the ground underfoot was packed smooth.\par
\'93Where are they taking us?\'94 Candace asked nervously.\par
\'93I guess toward the caves,\'94 Kevin said.\par
\'93This is ridiculous,\'94 Melanie said. \'93We\'92re being taken for a walk like dogs on a leash. If they\'92re so impressed with us, maybe we should resist.\'94\par
\'93I don\'92t think so,\'94 Kevin said. \'93I think we should make every effort not to get them riled up.\'94\par
\'93Candace?\'94 Melanie asked. \'93What are you thinking? \'94\par
\'93I\'92m too scared to think,\'94 Candace said. \'93I just want to get back to the canoe.\'94\par
The bonobo leading with the rope turned and gave the rope a yank. The tug almost knocked all three people down. The bonobo repeatedly waved his hand palm down while whispering: \'93Hana.\'94\par
\'93My god, is he strong or what?\'94 Melanie commented as she regained her footing.\par
\'93What do you think he means?\'94 Candace asked.\par
\'93If I had to guess, I\'92d say he\'92s telling us to be quiet,\'94 Kevin said.\par
All at once, the entire group stopped. There were some hand signals among the bonobos. Several pointed up toward the trees to the right. A small group of bonobos slipped silently into the vegetation. Those remaining formed a wide circle, except for three who climbed directly up into the canopy of the forest with an ease that defied gravity.\par
\'93What\'92s happening?\'94 Candace whispered.\par
\'93Something important,\'94 Kevin said. \'93They all seem to be tense.\'94\par
Several minutes went by. None of the bonobos on the ground moved or made the slightest noise. Then suddenly, there was a tremendous commotion to the right, accompanied by high-pitched shrieks. At once, the trees were alive with desperately fleeing colobus monkeys on a course bringing them directly toward the bonobos who\'92d climbed up into the trees.\par
The terrified monkeys tried to change direction, but in their haste several of them lost their hold on the branches and fell to the ground. Before they could recover they were set upon by waiting bonobos on the ground who killed them instantly with stone wedges.\par
Candace winced in horror, then turned away.\par
\'93I\'92d say that was a good example of coordinated hunting,\'94 Melanie whispered. \'93That requires a high level of cooperation.\'94 Despite the circumstances, she couldn\'92t help but be impressed.\par
\'93Don\'92t rub it in,\'94 Kevin whispered. \'93I\'92m afraid the jury is in, and the verdict is bad. We\'92ve only been on the island for an hour, but the question that brought us here has already been answered. Besides collective hunting, we\'92ve seen totally upright posture, opposable thumbs, toolmaking, and even rudimentary speech. I sense they can vocalize just like you and I.\'94\par
\'93It\'92s extraordinary,\'94 Melanie whispered. \'93These animals have gone through four or five million years of human evolution in the few years they\'92ve been out here.\'94\par
\'93Oh, shut up!\'94 Candace cried. \'93We\'92re prisoners of these beasts and you two are having a scientific discussion.\'94\par
\'93It\'92s more than a scientific discussion,\'94 Kevin said. \'93We\'92re acknowledging a terrible mistake, and I\'92m responsible. The reality is worse than I feared when I saw the smoke coming from this island. These animals are protohumans.\'94\par
\'93I have to share some of the blame,\'94 Melanie said.\par
\'93I disagree,\'94 Kevin said. \'93I\'92m the one who created the chimeras by adding the human chromosome segments. That wasn\'92t your doing.\'94\par
\'93What are they doing now?\'94 Candace asked.\par
Kevin and Melanie turned to see bonobo number one coming toward them, carrying the bloodied corpse of one of the colobus monkeys. He was still wearing the wristwatch, which only underlined the beast\'92s odd position between man and ape.\par
Bonobo number one brought the dead monkey directly to Candace and held it out toward her in both his hands and said: \'93Sta.\'94\par
Candace moaned and turned her head. She looked like she was about to get sick.\par
\'93He\'92s offering it to you,\'94 Melanie told Candace. \'93Try to respond.\'94\par
\'93I can\'92t look at it,\'94 Candace said.\par
\'93Try!\'94 Melanie pleaded.\par
Candace slowly turned. Her face reflected her disgust. The monkey\'92s head had been crushed.\par
\'93Just bow or do something,\'94 Melanie encouraged.\par
Candace smiled weakly and bowed her head.\par
Bonobo number one bowed and then withdrew.\par
\'93Incredible,\'94 Melanie said, watching the animal leave. \'93Although he\'92s obviously the alpha male, there must still be remnants of the typical matriarchal bonobo society.\'94\par
\'93Candace, you did great,\'94 Kevin said.\par
\'93I\'92m a wreck,\'94 Candace said.\par
\'93I knew I should have been a blond,\'94 Melanie said with her own attempt at humor.\par
The bonobo holding the rope gave a tug significantly less forceful than the previous one. The group was on the move again and Kevin, Melanie, and Candace were forced to follow.\par
\'93I don\'92t want to go any farther,\'94 Candace said tearfully.\par
\'93Pull yourself together,\'94 Melanie said. \'93Everything is going to be okay. I\'92m starting to think Kevin\'92s suggestion was right. They think of us like gods, especially you with that blond hair. They could have killed us instantly if they\'92d been inclined, just like they killed the monkeys.\'94\par
\'93Why did they kill the monkeys?\'94 Candace asked.\par
\'93I assume for food,\'94 Melanie said. \'93It is a little surprising since bonobos are not carnivorous, but chimps can be.\'94\par
\'93I was afraid they were human enough for the killing to be for sport,\'94 Candace said.\par
The group passed through a marshy area, then began a climb. Fifteen minutes later, they emerged from the forest twilight onto a rocky but grassy area at the foot of the limestone escarpment.\par
Halfway up the rock face was the opening of a cave that appeared to be accessible only by a series of extremely steeply tiered ledges. At the lip of the cave were a dozen more bonobos. Most were female. They were striking their chests with the flat of their hands and yelling \'93bada\'94 over and over again.\par
The bonobos with Kevin, Melanie, and Candace did the same and then held up the dead colobus monkeys. That resulted in hooting from the females that Melanie said reminded her of chimps.\par
Then the group of bonobos at the base of the cliff parted. Kevin, Melanie, and Candace were pulled forward. At the sight of them, the females above fell silent.\par
\'93Why do I have the feeling the females aren\'92t so happy to see us?\'94 Melanie whispered.\par
\'93I\'92d rather think they were just confused,\'94 Kevin whispered back. \'93They hadn\'92t expected company.\'94\par
Finally bonobo number one said \'93zit\'94 and pointed up with his thumb. The group surged forward pulling Kevin, Melanie, and Candace along.\par
\par
\par
\pard\qj\fs32 CHAPTER 18\par
\pard\fi283\qj\fs24\par
\pard\qr MARCH 7, 1997\par
6:15 A.M.\par
NEW YORK CITY\par
\pard\fi283\qj\par
\pard\qj JACK\'92S lids blinked open, and he was instantly awake. He sat up and rubbed his gritty eyes. He was still tired from the poor night\'92s sleep the night before last and from having stayed up later than he planned the previous evening, but he was too keyed up to fall back asleep.\par
\pard\fi283\qj Getting up off the couch, Jack wrapped himself in his blanket against the morning chill and went to the bedroom door. He listened for a moment. Convinced that Laurie was still sound asleep, he cracked the door. As he\'92d expected, Laurie was on her side under a mound of covers, breathing deeply.\par
As quietly as possible, Jack tiptoed across the bedroom and entered the bathroom. Once the door was closed, he quickly shaved and showered. When he reappeared, he was pleased to see that Laurie had not budged.\par
Getting fresh clothes from his closet and bureau, Jack carried them out into the living room and got dressed. A few minutes later, he emerged from his building into the predawn light. It was raw and cold with a few snowflakes dancing in the gusts of wind.\par
Across the street was a squad car with two uniformed policemen drinking coffee and reading the morning papers with the help of the interior light. They recognized Jack and waved. Jack waved back. Lou had kept his word.\par
Jack jogged down the street to the local deli on Columbus Avenue. One of the policemen dutifully followed. Jack thought about buying him a donut but decided against it; he didn\'92t want the cop to take it the wrong way.\par
With an armload of juice, coffee, fruit, and fresh bagels, he returned to the apartment. Laurie was up and was in the shower. Jack knocked on the door to announce that breakfast was served whenever she was ready.\par
Laurie appeared a few minutes later clad in Jack\'92s robe. Her hair was still wet. The sequelae from the previous night\'92s run-in with Angelo did not look bad. All that was apparent was a mild black eye.\par
\'93Now that you\'92ve had a night\'92s sleep to think about this trip, do you still feel the same?\'94 Laurie asked.\par
\'93Absolutely,\'94 Jack said. \'93I\'92m psyched.\'94\par
\'93Are you really going to pay for everyone\'92s ticket?\'94 she asked. \'93This could get expensive.\'94\par
\'93What else do I have to spend my money on?\'94 Jack said. He glanced around his apartment. \'93Certainly not my lifestyle, and the bike is all paid for.\'94\par
\'93Seriously,\'94 Laurie said. \'93I can understand Esteban to some extent, but Warren and Natalie?\'94\par
The previous night when the proposal had been presented to Teodora, she had reminded her husband that one of them had to stay in the city to mind the market and be there for their teenage son. The decision that Esteban would go instead of Teodora had been decided by the flip of a coin.\par
\'93I was serious about making it fun,\'94 Jack said. \'93Even if we don\'92t learn anything, which is a possibility, it will at least be a great trip. I could see in Warren\'92s eyes his interest to visit that part of Africa. And on the way back, we\'92ll spend a night or two in Paris.\'94\par
\'93You don\'92t have to convince me,\'94 Laurie said. \'93I was against your going at first, but now I\'92m excited myself.\'94\par
\'93Now all we have to do is convince Bingham,\'94 Jack said.\par
\'93I don\'92t think that will be a problem,\'94 Laurie said. \'93Neither of us has taken the vacation time they\'92ve wanted us to. And Lou said he\'92d put in his two cents about the threats. He\'92d like to get us out of town.\'94\par
\'93I never trust bureaucracy,\'94 Jack said. \'93But I\'92ll be optimistic. And assuming we\'92re going, let\'92s divvy up the errands. I\'92ll go ahead and get the tickets while you, Warren, and Natalie take care of the visa situation. Also, we\'92ve got to arrange for some shots and start malaria prophylaxis. We really should have more time for immunizations, but we\'92ll do the best we can, and we\'92ll take a lot of insect repellant.\'94\par
\'93Sounds good,\'94 Laurie said.\par
Because of Laurie, Jack left his beloved mountain bike in his apartment. Together, they cabbed down to the medical examiner\'92s office. When they walked into the ID room Vinnie lowered his newspaper and looked at them as if they were ghosts.\par
\'93What are you guys doing here?\'94 he asked with a voice that broke. He cleared his throat.\par
\'93What kind of question is that?\'94 Jack asked. \'93We work here, Vinnie. Have you forgotten?\'94\par
\'93I just didn\'92t think you two were on call,\'94 Vinnie said. He hastily took a drink from his coffee cup before coughing again.\par
Jack and Laurie went to the coffee urn. \'93He\'92s been in a weird mood for the last couple of days,\'94 Jack whispered.\par
Laurie glanced back at Vinnie over her shoulder. Vinnie had gone back behind his newspaper.\par
\'93That was a strange reaction,\'94 she agreed. \'93I noticed he was nervous around me yesterday.\'94\par
Jack and Laurie\'92s eyes met. They regarded each other for a moment.\par
\'93Are you thinking what I\'92m thinking?\'94 Laurie asked.\par
\'93Maybe,\'94 Jack said. \'93It kind of fits. He certainly has access.\'94\par
\'93I think we should say something to Lou,\'94 Laurie said. \'93I\'92d hate it to be Vinnie, but we have to find out who\'92s been giving out confidential information around here.\'94\par
Conveniently for Laurie, her week-long rotation as the day chief was over, and Paul Plodgett\'92s was starting. Paul was already at the desk, going over the cases that had come in the previous night. Laurie and Jack told him they were planning on taking vacation time and wanted to skip doing any autopsies that day unless there was a glut. Paul assured them that the case load was light.\par
Laurie was more politically minded than Jack, and it was her opinion that they should approach Calvin about their vacation plans before they talked with Bingham. Jack bowed to her better judgment. Calvin\'92s response was to merely grunt that they could have given more notice.\par
As soon as Bingham arrived, Laurie and Jack went to his office. He regarded them curiously over the tops of his wire-rimmed glasses. He was clutching the morning mail, which he was in the process of going through.\par
\'93You want two weeks starting today?\'94 he questioned with disbelief. \'93What\'92s the rush? Is this some sort of an emergency?\'94\par
\'93We\'92re planning on an adventure-type trip,\'94 Jack said. \'93We\'92d like to leave this evening.\'94\par
Bingham\'92s watery eyes went back and forth between Laurie and Jack. \'93You two aren\'92t planning on getting married, are you?\'94\par
\'93Not that adventuresome,\'94 Jack said.\par
Laurie sputtered with laughter. \'93We\'92re sorry not to have given more notice,\'94 she said. \'93The reason for the haste is because last night both of us were threatened over the Franconi case.\'94\par
\'93Threatened?\'94 Bingham questioned. \'93Does it have anything to do with that shiner you\'92ve got?\'94\par
\'93I\'92m afraid so,\'94 Laurie said. She\'92d tried to cover the bruise with makeup but had only been partially successful.\par
\'93Who was behind these threats?\'94 Bingham asked.\par
\'93One of the New York crime families,\'94 Laurie said. \'93Lieutenant Louis Soldano offered to fill you in on it as well as talk to you about a possible mole for the crime family here in the medical examiner\'92s office. We think we have figured out how Franconi\'92s body was taken from here.\'94\par
\'93I\'92m listening,\'94 Bingham said. He put the mail down and leaned back in his chair.\par
Laurie explained the story, emphasizing that the Spoletto Funeral Home had to have been given the accession number of the unidentified case.\par
\'93Did Detective Soldano think it wise for you two to leave town?\'94 Bingham asked.\par
\'93Yes, he did,\'94 Laurie said.\par
\'93Fine,\'94 Bingham said. \'93Then you\'92re out of here. Am I supposed to call Soldano or is he calling me?\'94\par
\'93It was our understanding that he was going to call you,\'94 Laurie said.\par
\'93Good,\'94 Bingham said. Then he looked directly at Jack. \'93What about the liver issue?\'94\par
\'93That\'92s up in the air,\'94 Jack said. \'93I\'92m still waiting on some more tests.\'94\par
Bingham nodded and commented: \'93This case is a goddamned pain in the ass. Just make sure I\'92m informed cf any breaking news while you\'92re away. I don\'92t want any surprises.\'94 He looked down at his desk and picked up the mail. \'93You people have a good trip and send me a postcard.\'94\par
Laurie and Jack went out into the hall and smiled at each other.\par
\'93Well, it looks good,\'94 Jack said. \'93Bingham was the major potential stumbling block.\'94\par
\'93I wonder if we should have told him we\'92re going to Africa because of the liver issue?\'94 Laurie asked.\par
\'93I don\'92t think so,\'94 Jack said. \'93He might have changed his mind about letting us go. As far as he\'92s concerned, he wishes this case would just disappear.\'94\par
Retiring to their separate offices, Laurie phoned the Equatoguinean Embassy about the visas, while Jack called the airlines. She quickly learned that Esteban had been right about the ease of getting a visa and that it could be done that morning. Jack found Air France happy to make all the arrangements, and he agreed to stop by their office that afternoon to pick up the tickets.\par
Laurie appeared in Jack\'92s office. She was beaming. \'93I\'92m beginning to think this is really going to happen,\'94 she said excitedly. \'93How\'92d you do?\'94\par
\'93Fine,\'94 Jack said. \'93We leave tonight at seven-fifty.\'94\par
\'93I can\'92t believe this,\'94 Laurie said. \'93I feel like a teenager going on my first trip.\'94\par
After making arrangements with the travel and immunization office at the Manhattan General Hospital, they called Warren. He agreed to get in touch with Natalie and meet them at the hospital.\par
The nurse practitioner gave each of them a battery of shots as well as prescriptions for antimalarial drugs. She also urged them to wait a full week before exposure. Jack explained that was impossible. The nurse\'92s response was to say that she was glad they were going and not she.\par
In the hall outside the travel office, Warren asked Jack what the woman meant.\par
\'93It takes up to a week for these shots to take effect,\'94 Jack explained. \'93That is, except for the gamma globulin.\'94\par
\'93Are we taking a risk, then?\'94 Warren asked.\par
\'93Life\'92s a risk,\'94 Jack quipped. \'93Seriously, there\'92s some risk, but each day our immune systems will be better prepared. The main problem is the malaria, but I intend to take a hell of a lot of insect repellant.\'94\par
\'93So you\'92re not concerned?\'94 Warren asked.\par
\'93Not enough to keep me home,\'94 Jack said.\par
After leaving the hospital, they all went to a passport photo place and had snapshots taken. With those in hand, Laurie, Warren, and Natalie left to visit the Equatoguinean Embassy.\par
Jack caught a taxi and directed it to the University Hospital. Once there, he went directly up to Dr. Peter Malovar\'92s lab. As usual he found the aged pathologist bent over his microscope. Jack waited respectfully until the professor had finished studying his current slide.\par
\'93Ahhh, Dr. Stapleton,\'94 Dr. Malovar said, catching sight of Jack. \'93I\'92m glad you came. Now, where is that slide of yours?\'94\par
Dr. Malovar\'92s lab was a dusty clutter of books, journals, and hundreds of slide trays. The wastebaskets were perennially overflowing. The professor steadfastly refused to allow anybody into his work space to clean lest they disturb his structured disorder.\par
With surprising speed, the professor located Jack\'92s slide on top of a veterinary pathology book. His nimble fingers picked it up and slipped it under the microscope\'92s objective.\par
\'93Dr. Osgood\'92s suggestion to have this reviewed by Dr. Hammersmith was crackerjack,\'94 Dr. Malovar said as he focused. When he was satisfied, he sat back, picked up the book, and opened it to the page indicated by a clean microscope slide. He handed the book to Jack.\par
Jack looked at the page Dr. Malovar indicated. It was a photomicrograph of a section of liver. There was a granuloma similar to the one on Jack\'92s slide.\par
\'93It\'92s the same,\'94 Dr. Malovar said. He motioned for Jack to compare by looking into the microscope.\par
Jack leaned forward and studied the slide. The images did seem identical.\par
\'93This is certainly one of the more interesting slides you have brought to me,\'94 Dr. Malovar said. He pushed a lock of his wild, gray hair out of his eyes. \'93As you can read from the book, the offending organism is called hepatocystis.\'94\par
Jack straightened up from looking at his slide to glance back at the book. He\'92d never heard of hepatocystis.\par
\'93Is it rare?\'94 Jack asked.\par
\'93In the New York City morgue I\'92d have to say yes,\'94 Dr. Malovar said. \'93Extremely rare! You see it is only found in primates. And not only that, but it is only found in Old World primates, meaning primates found in Africa and Southeast Asia. It\'92s never been seen in the New World and never in humans.\'94\par
\'93Never?\'94 Jack questioned.\par
\'93Put it this way,\'94 Dr. Malovar said. \'93I\'92ve never seen it, and I\'92ve seen a lot of liver parasites. More important, Dr. Osgood has never seen it, and he has seen more liver parasites than I. With that kind of combined experience, I\'92d have to say it does not exist in humans. Of course, in the endemic areas, it might be a different story, but even there it would have to be rare. Otherwise we\'92d have seen a case or two.\'94\par
\'93I appreciate your help,\'94 Jack said distractedly. He was already wrestling with the implications of this surprising bit of information. It was a much stronger suggestion that Franconi had had a xenotransplant than the mere fact that he\'92d gone to Africa.\par
\'93This would be an interesting case to present at our grand rounds,\'94 Dr. Malovar said. \'93If you are interested, let me know.\'94\par
\'93Of course,\'94 Jack said noncommittally. His mind was in a whirl.\par
Jack left the professor, took the hospital elevator down to the ground floor, and started toward the medical examiner\'92s office. Finding an Old World primate parasite in a liver sample was very telling evidence. But then there were the confusing results that Ted Lynch had gotten on the DNA analysis to contend with. And on top of that was the fact there was no inflammation in the liver with no immunosuppressant drugs. The only thing that was certain was that it all didn\'92t make sense.\par
Arriving back at the morgue, Jack went directly up to the DNA lab with the intention of grilling Ted in the hope that he could come up with some hypothesis to explain what was going on. The problem as Jack saw it was that Jack didn\'92t know enough about current DNA science to come up with an idea on his own. The field was changing too rapidly.\par
\'93Jesus, Stapleton, where the hell have you been!\'94 Ted snapped the moment he saw Jack. \'93I\'92ve been calling all over creation and nobody\'92s seen you.\'94\par
\'93I\'92ve been out,\'94 Jack said defensively. He thought for a second about explaining what was going on then changed his mind. Too much had happened in the previous twelve hours.\par
\'93Sit down!\'94 Ted commanded.\par
Jack sat.\par
Ted searched around on his desktop until he located a particular sheet of developed film covered with hundreds of minute dark bands. He handed it to Jack.\par
\'93Ted, why do you do this to me?\'94 Jack complained. \'93You know perfectly well I have no idea what I\'92m looking at with these things.\'94\par
Ted ignored Jack, while he searched for another similar piece of celluloid. He found it under a laboratory budget he was working on. He handed the second one to Jack.\par
\'93Hold them up to the light,\'94 Ted said.\par
Jack did as he was told. He looked at the two sheets. Even he could tell they were different.\par
Ted pointed to the first sheet of celluloid. \'93This is a study of the region of the DNA that codes for ribosomal protein of a human being. I just picked a case at random to show you what it looks like.\'94\par
\'93It\'92s gorgeous,\'94 Jack said.\par
\'93Let\'92s not be sarcastic,\'94 Ted said.\par
\'93I\'92ll try,\'94 Jack said.\par
\'93Now, this other one is a study of Franconi\'92s liver sample,\'94 Ted said. \'93It\'92s the same region using the same enzymes as the first study. Can you see how different it is?\'94\par
\'93That\'92s the only thing I can see,\'94 Jack said.\par
Ted snatched away the human study and tossed it aside. Then he pointed at the film Jack was still holding. \'93As I told you yesterday this information is on CD-ROM so I was able to let the computer make a match of the pattern. It came back that it was most consistent with a chimpanzee.\'94\par
\'93Not definitely a chimpanzee?\'94 Jack asked. Nothing seemed to be definite about this case.\par
\'93No, but close,\'94 Ted said. \'93Kind of like a cousin of a chimpanzee. Something like that.\'94\par
\'93Do chimps have cousins?\'94 Jack asked.\par
\'93You got me,\'94 Ted said with a shrug. \'93But I\'92ve been dying to give you this information. You have to admit it\'92s rather impressive.\'94\par
\'93So from your perspective it was a xenograft,\'94 Jack said.\par
Ted shrugged again. \'93If you made me guess, I\'92d have to say yes. But taking the DQ alpha results into consideration, I don\'92t know what to say. Also I\'92ve taken it upon myself to run the DNA for the ABO blood groups. So far that\'92s coming up just like the DQ alpha. I think it\'92s going to be a perfect match for Franconi, which only confuses things farther. It\'92s a weird case.\'94\par
\'93Tell me about it!\'94 Jack said. He then related to Ted the discovery of an Old World primate parasite.\par
Ted made an expression of confusion. \'93I\'92m glad this is your case and not mine,\'94 he said.\par
Jack placed the sheet of celluloid on Ted\'92s desk. \'93If I\'92m lucky, I might have some answers in the next few days,\'94 he said. \'93Tonight I\'92m off to Africa to visit the same country Franconi did.\'94\par
\'93Is the office sending you?\'94 Ted asked with surprise.\par
\'93Nope,\'94 Jack said. \'93I\'92m going on my own. Well, that\'92s not quite true. I mean, I\'92m paying for it, but Laurie is going, too.\'94\par
\'93My god, you are thorough,\'94 Ted said.\par
\'93Dogged is probably a better word,\'94 Jack said.\par
Jack got up to go. When he reached the door, Ted called out to him: \'93I did get the results of the mitochondrial DNA back. There was a match with Mrs. Franconi, so at least your identification was right.\'94\par
\'93Finally something definitive,\'94 Jack said.\par
Jack was again about to leave when Ted called out again.\par
\'93I just had a crazy idea,\'94 Ted said. \'93The only way I could explain the results I\'92ve been getting is if the liver was transgenic.\'94\par
\'93What the hell does that mean?\'94 Jack asked.\par
\'93It means the liver contains DNA from two separate organisms,\'94 Ted said.\par
\'93Hmmmm,\'94 Jack said. \'93I\'92ll have to think about that one.\'94\par
\par
\par
\pard\qr COGO, EQUATORIAL GUINEA\par
\pard\fi283\qj\par
\pard\qj Bertram looked at his watch. It was four o\'92clock in the afternoon. Raising his eyes to look out the window, he noticed that the sudden, violent tropical rainstorm which had totally darkened the sky only fifteen minutes earlier had already vanished. In its place was a steamy sunny African afternoon.\par
\pard\fi283\qj With sudden resolve Bertram reached for his phone and called up to the fertility center. The evening tech by the name of Shirley Cartwright answered.\par
\'93Have the two new breeding bonobo females got their hormone shots today?\'94 Bertram asked.\par
\'93Not yet,\'94 Shirley said.\par
\'93I thought the protocol called for them to get the shots at two \scaps p.m\scaps0 .,\'94 Bertram said.\par
\'93That\'92s the usual schedule,\'94 Shirley said hesitantly.\par
\'93Why the delay?\'94 Bertram asked.\par
\'93Miss Becket hasn\'92t arrived yet,\'94 Shirley explained reluctantly. The last thing she wanted to do was get her immediate boss in trouble, but she knew she couldn\'92t lie.\par
\'93When was she due?\'94 Bertram asked.\par
\'93No particular time,\'94 Shirley said. \'93She\'92d told the day staff she\'92d be busy all morning in her lab over at the hospital. I imagine she got tied up.\'94\par
\'93She didn\'92t leave instructions for the hormones to be given by someone else if she didn\'92t arrive by two?\'94 Bertram asked.\par
\'93Apparently not,\'94 Shirley said. \'93So I expect her at any minute.\'94\par
\'93If she doesn\'92t come in the next half hour, go ahead and give the scheduled doses,\'94 Bertram said. \'93Will that be a problem?\'94\par
\'93No problem whatsoever, Doctor,\'94 Shirley said.\par
Bertram disconnected and then dialed Melanie\'92s lab in the hospital complex. He was less familiar with the staff and didn\'92t know the person who answered. But the person knew Bertram and told him a disturbing story. Melanie hadn\'92t been in that day because she\'92d been tied up at the animal center.\par
Bertram hung up and nervously tapped the top of the phone with the nail of his index finger. Despite Siegfried\'92s assertions that he\'92d taken care of the potential problem with Kevin and his reputed girlfriends, Bertram was skeptical. Melanie was a conscientious worker. It certainly wasn\'92t like her to miss a scheduled injection.\par
Snapping up the phone again, Bertram tried calling Kevin, but there was no answer.\par
With his suspicions rising, Bertram got up from his desk and informed Martha, his secretary, that he\'92d be back in an hour. Outside, he climbed into his Cherokee and headed for town.\par
As he drove Bertram became increasingly certain that Kevin and the women had managed to go to the island, and it angered him. He berated himself for allowing Siegfried to lull him into a false sense of security. Bertram had a growing premonition that Kevin\'92s curiosity was going to cause major trouble.\par
At the point of transition from asphalt to cobblestones at the edge of town, Bertram had to brake abruptly. In his mounting vexation, he\'92d been unaware of his speed. The wet cobblestones from the recent downpour were as slick as ice, so Bertram\'92s car skidded several yards before coming to a complete stop.\par
Bertram parked in the hospital parking lot. He climbed to the third floor of the lab and pounded on Kevin\'92s door. There was no response. Bertram tried the door. It was locked.\par
Returning to his car, Bertram drove around the town square and parked behind the town hall. He nodded to the lazy group of soldiers lounging in broken rattan chairs in the shade of the arcade.\par
Taking the stairs by twos, Bertram presented himself to Aurielo and said he had to speak to Siegfried.\par
\'93He\'92s with the chief of security at the moment,\'94 Aurielo said.\par
\'93Let him know I\'92m here,\'94 Bertram said, as he began to pace the outer office. His irritation was mounting.\par
Five minutes later, Cameron McIvers emerged from the inner office. He said hello to Bertram, but Bertram ignored him in his haste to get in to see Siegfried.\par
\'93We\'92ve got a problem,\'94 Bertram said. \'93Melanie Becket didn\'92t show up for a scheduled injection this afternoon, and Kevin Marshall is not in his lab.\'94\par
\'93I\'92m not surprised,\'94 Siegfried said calmly. He sat back and stretched with his good arm. \'93They were both seen leaving early this morning with the nurse. The m\'e9nage-\'e0-trois seems to be blossoming. They even had a dinner party late into the night at Kevin\'92s house, and then the women stayed over.\par
\'93Truly?\'94 Bertram questioned. That the nerdy researcher could be involved in such a liaison seemed impossible.\par
\'93I should know,\'94 Siegfried said. \'93I live across the green from Kevin. Besides, I met the women earlier at the Chickee Bar. They were already tipsy and told me they were on their way to Kevin\'92s.\'94\par
\'93Where did they go this morning?\'94 Bertram asked.\par
\'93I assume to Acalayong,\'94 Siegfried said. \'93They were seen leaving in a pirogue before dawn by a member of the janitorial staff.\'94\par
\'93Then they have gone to the island by water,\'94 Bertram snapped.\par
\'93They were seen going west, not east,\'94 Siegfried said.\par
\'93It could have been a ruse,\'94 Bertram said.\par
\'93It could have,\'94 Siegfried agreed. \'93And I thought of the possibility. I even discussed it with Cameron. But both of us are of the opinion that the only way to visit the island by water is to land at the staging area. The rest of the island is surrounded by a virtual wall of mangroves and marsh.\'94\par
Bertram\'92s eyes rose up to stare at the huge rhino heads on the wall behind Siegfried. Their brainless carcasses reminded him of the site manager, yet Bertram had to admit in this instance he had a point. In fact, when the island was initially considered for the bonobo project its inaccessibility by water had been one of its attractions.\par
\'93And they couldn\'92t have landed at the staging area,\'94 Siegfried continued, \'93because the soldiers are still out there itching to have an excuse to use their AK-47\'92s.\'94 Siegfried laughed. \'93It tickles me every time I think of their shooting out Melanie\'92s car windows.\'94\par
\'93Maybe you\'92re right,\'94 Bertram said grudgingly.\par
\'93Of course I\'92m right,\'94 Siegfried said.\par
\'93But I\'92m still concerned,\'94 Bertram said. \'93And suspicious. I want to get into Kevin\'92s office.\'94\par
\'93For what reason?\'94 Siegfried asked.\par
\'93I was stupid enough to show him how to tap into the software we\'92d developed for locating the bonobos,\'94 Bertram said. \'93Unfortunately, he\'92s been taking advantage of it. I know because he\'92s accessed it on several occasions for long periods of time. I\'92d like to see if I can find out what he\'92d been up to.\'94\par
\'93I\'92d say that sounds quite reasonable,\'94 Siegfried said. He called out to Aurielo to see to it that Bertram had an entrance card for the lab. Then he said to Bertram: \'93Let me know if you find anything interesting.\'94\par
\'93Don\'92t worry,\'94 Bertram said.\par
Armed with the magnetic pass card, Bertram returned to the lab and entered Kevin\'92s space. Locking the door behind him, he first went through Kevin\'92s desk. Finding nothing, he made a quick tour of the room. The first sign of trouble was a stack of computer paper next to the printer that Bertram recognized as printouts of the island graphic.\par
Bertram examined each page. He could tell that they represented varying scales. What he couldn\'92t figure out was the meaning of all the surcharged geometric shapes.\par
Putting the pages aside, Bertram went to Kevin\'92s computer and began to search through his directories. It wasn\'92t long before he found what he was looking for: the source of the information on the printouts.\par
For the next half hour, Bertram was transfixed by what he found: Kevin had devised a way to follow individual animals in real time. After Bertram played with this capability for a while, he came across Kevin\'92s stored information documenting the animals\'92 movement over a period of several hours. From this information, Bertram was able to reproduce the geometric shapes.\par
\'93You are too clever for your own good,\'94 Bertram said out loud as he allowed the computer to run sequentially through the movements of each animal. By the time the program had run its course, Bertram had seen the problem with bonobo numbers sixty and sixty-seven.\par
With mounting anxiety, Bertram tried to get the indicators for the two animals to move. When he couldn\'92t, he went back to real time and displayed the two animals\'92 current position. They\'92d not changed one iota.\par
\'93Good lord!\'94 Bertram moaned. All at once, the worry about Kevin vanished and was replaced with a more pressing problem. Turning off the computer, Bertram snapped up the printed island graphics, and ran out of the lab. Outside, he passed up his car to run directly across the square to the town hall. He knew it would take less time on foot.\par
He raced up the stairs. As he entered the outer office, Aurielo looked up. Bertram ignored him. He burst into Siegfried\'92s office unannounced.\par
\'93I\'92ve got to talk with you immediately,\'94 Bertram sputtered to Siegfried. He was out of breath.\par
Siegfried was meeting with his food-service supervisor. Both appeared stunned by Bertram\'92s arrival.\par
\'93It\'92s an emergency,\'94 Bertram added.\par
The food-service supervisor stood up. \'93I can return later,\'94 he said and left.\par
\'93This better be important,\'94 Siegfried warned.\par
Bertram waved the computer printouts. \'93It\'92s very bad news,\'94 he said. He took the chair vacated by the supervisor. \'93Kevin Marshall figured out a way to follow the bonobos over time.\'94\par
\'93So what?\'94 Siegfried said.\par
\'93At least two of the bonobos don\'92t move,\'94 Bertram said. \'93Number sixty and number sixty-seven. And they haven\'92t moved for more than twenty-four hours. There\'92s only one explanation. They\'92re dead!\'94\par
Siegfried raised his eyebrows. \'93Well, they\'92re animals,\'94 he said. \'93Animals die. We have to expect some attrition.\'94\par
\'93You don\'92t understand,\'94 Bertram said with a tinge of disdain. \'93You made light of my concern that the animals had split into two groups. I told you that it was significant. This, unfortunately, is proof. As sure as I\'92m standing here, those animals are killing each other!\'94\par
\'93You think so?\'94 Siegfried asked with alarm.\par
\'93There\'92s no doubt in my mind,\'94 Bertram said. \'93I\'92ve been agonizing over why they split up into two groups. I decided it had to have been because we forgot to maintain the balance between males and females. There\'92s no other explanation, and it means the males are fighting over the females. I\'92m sure of it.\'94\par
\'93Oh my god!\'94 Siegfried exclaimed, with a shake of his head. \'93That\'92s terrible news.\'94\par
\'93It\'92s more than terrible,\'94 Bertram said. \'93It\'92s intolerable. It will be the ruin of the whole program provided we don\'92t act.\'94\par
\'93What can we do?\'94 Siegfried asked.\par
\'93First, we tell no one!\'94 Bertram said. \'93If there is ever an order to harvest either sixty or sixty-seven, we\'92ll deal with that particular problem then. Second, and more important, we must bring the animals in like I\'92ve been advocating. The bonobos won\'92t be killing each other if they\'92re in separate cages.\'94\par
Siegfried had to accept the white-haired veterinarian\'92s advice. Although he\'92d always favored the animals being off by themselves for logistical and security reasons, its time was past. The animals could not be allowed to kill each other. In a very real way, there was no choice.\par
\'93When should we retrieve them?\'94 Siegfried asked.\par
\'93As soon as possible,\'94 Bertram said. \'93I can have a team of security-cleared animal handlers ready by dawn tomorrow. We\'92ll begin by darting the splinter group. Once we have all the animals caged, which should take no more than two or three days, we\'92ll move them at night to a section of the animal center that I will prepare.\'94\par
\'93I suppose I\'92d better recall that contingent of soldiers out by the bridge,\'94 Siegfried said. \'93The last thing we need is for them to shoot the animal handlers.\'94\par
\'93I didn\'92t like having them out there in the first place,\'94 Bertram said. \'93I was afraid they might have shot one of the animals for sport or soup.\'94\par
\'93When should we inform our respective bosses at GenSys?\'94 Siegfried asked.\par
\'93Not until it is done,\'94 Bertram said. \'93Only then will we know how many animals have been killed. Maybe we\'92ll also have a better idea of the best ultimate disposition. My guess is we\'92ll have to build a separate, new facility.\'94\par
\'93For that, we\'92d need authorization,\'94 Siegfried said.\par
\'93Obviously,\'94 Bertram said. He stood up. \'93All I can say is that it is a damn good thing I had the foresight to move all those cages out there.\'94\par
\par
\par
\pard\qr NEW YORK CITY\par
\pard\fi283\qj\par
\pard\qj Raymond felt better than he had in days. Things seemed to have gone well from the moment he\'92d gotten up. Just after nine he\'92d called Dr. Waller Anderson, and not only was the doctor going to join, he already had two clients ready to plunk down their deposits and head out to the Bahamas for the bone marrow aspirations.\par
\pard\fi283\qj Then around noon Raymond had gotten a call from Dr. Alice Norwood, whose office was on Rodeo Drive in Beverly Hills. She\'92d called to say that she\'92d recruited three physicians with large private practices who were eager to come on board. One was in Century City, another in Brentwood, and the last was in Bel-Air. She was convinced that these doctors would soon provide a flood of clients because the market on the West Coast for the service Raymond was offering was nothing short of phenomenal.\par
But what had pleased Raymond the most during the day was whom he didn\'92t hear from. There were no calls from either Vinnie Dominick or Dr. Daniel Levitz. Raymond took this silence to mean that the Franconi business had finally been put to bed.\par
At three-thirty, the door buzzer went off. Darlene answered it and with a tearful voice told Raymond that his car was waiting.\par
Raymond took his girlfriend in his arms and patted her on the back. \'93Next time maybe you can go,\'94 Raymond said consolingly.\par
\'93Really?\'94 she asked.\par
\'93I can\'92t guarantee it,\'94 Raymond said. \'93But we\'92ll try.\'94 Raymond had no control over the GenSys flights. Darlene had been able to go on only one of the trips to Cogo. On all the other occasions, the plane had been full on one of the segments. As standard procedure, the plane flew from the States to Europe and then on to Bata. On the return trip the same general itinerary was followed, although it was always a different European city.\par
After promising to call as soon as he arrived in Cogo, Raymond carried his bag downstairs. He climbed into the waiting sedan and luxuriously leaned back.\par
\'93Would you like the radio on, sir?\'94 the driver asked.\par
\'93Sure, why not,\'94 Raymond said. He was already beginning to enjoy himself.\par
The drive across town was the most difficult part of the trip. Once they were on the West Side Highway, they were able to make good time. There was a lot of traffic, but since rush hour had not begun, the traffic moved fluidly. It was the same situation on the George Washington Bridge. In less than an hour Raymond was dropped off at Teterboro Airport.\par
The GenSys plane had not yet arrived, but Raymond was not concerned. He positioned himself in the lounge, where he had a view of the runway and ordered himself a scotch. Just as he was being served, the sleek GenSys jet swooped in low out of the clouds and touched down. It taxied over to a position directly in front of Raymond.\par
It was a beautiful aircraft painted white with a red stripe along its side. Its only markings were its call sign, N69SU, and a tiny American flag. Both were on the fin of the tail assembly.\par
As if in slow motion, a forward door opened and self-contained steps extended down toward the tarmac. An impeccably dressed steward in dark-blue livery appeared in the doorway, descended the stairs and entered the general aviation building. His name was Roger Perry. Raymond remembered him well. Along with another steward named Jasper Devereau, he\'92d been on the plane every trip Raymond had made.\par
Once inside the building, Roger scanned the lounge. The moment he spotted Raymond, he walked over and greeted him with a salute.\par
\'93Is this the extent of your luggage, sir?\'94 Roger asked as he picked up Raymond\'92s bag.\par
\'93That\'92s it,\'94 Raymond said. \'93Are we leaving already? Isn\'92t the plane going to refuel?\'94 That had been the procedure on previous flights.\par
\'93We\'92re all set,\'94 Roger said.\par
Raymond got to his feet and followed the steward out into the gray, raw March afternoon. As he approached the luxurious private jet, Raymond hoped there were people watching him. At times like this, he felt as if he were living the life that was meant for him. He even told himself that he was lucky he\'92d lost his medical license.\par
\'93Tell me, Roger,\'94 Raymond called out just before they reached the stairs. \'93Are we full on the flight to Europe?\'94 On every flight Raymond had been on, there\'92d been other GenSys executives.\par
\'93Only one other passenger,\'94 Roger said. He stepped to the side at the base of the stairs and gestured for Raymond to precede him.\par
Raymond smiled as he climbed. With only one other passenger and two stewards, the flight was going to be even more enjoyable than he\'92d anticipated. The troubles that he\'92d had over the previous few days seemed a small price to pay for such luxury.\par
Just inside the plane, he was met by Jasper. Jasper took his overcoat and jacket and asked if Raymond wanted a drink before takeoff.\par
\'93I\'92ll wait,\'94 Raymond said gallantly.\par
Jasper pulled aside the drape that separated the galley from the cabin. Swelling with pride, Raymond passed into the main part of the plane. He was debating which of the deeply cushioned leather chairs to take when his eyes passed over the face of the other passenger. Raymond froze. At the same time, he felt a sinking feeling in his gut.\par
\'93Hello, Dr. Lyons. Welcome aboard.\'94\par
\'93Taylor Cabot!\'94 Raymond croaked. \'93I didn\'92t expect to see you.\'94\par
\'93I suppose not,\'94 Taylor said. \'93I\'92m surprised to see myself.\'94 He smiled and gestured toward the seat next to him.\par
Raymond quickly sat down. He berated himself for not taking the drink Jasper had offered. His throat had gone bone-dry.\par
\'93I\'92d been informed of the plane\'92s flight plan,\'94 Taylor explained, \'93and since there was a window of opportunity in my schedule, I thought it wise for me to personally check on our Cogo operation. It was a last-minute decision. Of course, we\'92ll be making a stop in Zurich for me to have a short meeting with some bankers. I hope you won\'92t find that inconvenient.\'94\par
Raymond shook his head. \'93No, not at all,\'94 he stammered.\par
\'93And how are things going with the bonobo project?\'94 Taylor asked.\par
\'93Very well,\'94 Raymond managed. \'93We\'92re expecting a number of new clients. In fact, we\'92re having trouble keeping up with demand.\'94\par
\'93And what about that regrettable episode with Carlo Franconi?\'94 Taylor enquired. \'93I trust that has been successfully dealt with.\'94\par
\'93Yes, of course,\'94 Raymond sputtered. He tried to smile.\par
\'93Part of the reason I\'92m making this trip is to be reassured that project is worth supporting,\'94 Taylor said. \'93My chief financial officer assures me that it is now turning a small profit. But my operations officer has reservations about jeopardizing our primate research business. So, I have to make a decision. I hope you will be willing to help me.\'94\par
\'93Certainly,\'94 Raymond squeaked, as he heard the characteristic whine of the jet engines starting.\par
\par
\pard\qj It was like a party at the bar in the international departure lounge at JFK airport. Even Lou was there having a beer and popping peanuts into his mouth. He was in a great mood and acted as if he were going on the trip.\par
\pard\fi283\qj Jack, Laurie, Warren, Natalie, and Esteban were sitting with Lou at a round table in the corner of the bar. Over their heads was a television tuned to a hockey game. The frantic voice of the announcer and the roar of the fans added to the general din.\par
\'93It\'92s been a great day,\'94 Lou yelled to Jack and Laurie. \'93We picked up Vido Delbario, and he\'92s singing to save his ass. I think we\'92ll be making a major dent in the Vaccarro organization.\'94\par
\'93What about Angelo Facciolo and Franco Ponti?\'94 Laurie asked.\par
\'93That\'92s another story,\'94 Lou said with a laugh. \'93For once the judge sided with us and set bail at two million each. What did the trick was the police impersonation charge.\'94\par
\'93How about Spoletto Funeral Home?\'94 Laurie asked.\par
\'93That\'92s going to be a gold mine,\'94 Lou said. \'93The owner is the brother of the wife of Vinnie Dominick. You remember him, don\'92t you, Laurie?\'94\par
Laurie nodded. \'93How can I forget?\'94\par
\'93Who\'92s Vinnie Dominick?\'94 Jack asked.\par
\'93He played a surprising role in the Cerino affair,\'94 Laurie explained.\par
\'93He\'92s with the competing Lucia organization,\'94 Lou said. \'93They\'92ve been having a field day after Cerino\'92s fall. But my gut feeling tells me we\'92re going to puncture their balloon.\'94\par
\'93What about the mole in the medical examiner\'92s office?\'94 Laurie asked.\par
\'93Hey, first things first,\'94 Lou said. \'93We\'92ll get to that. Don\'92t worry.\'94\par
\'93When you do, check out one of the techs by the name of Vinnie Amendola,\'94 Laurie said.\par
\'93Any particular reason?\'94 Lou asked, as he wrote down the name in the small notebook he carried in the side pocket of his jacket.\par
\'93Just a suspicion,\'94 Laurie said.\par
\'93Consider it done,\'94 Lou said. \'93You know, this episode shows how fast things can change. Yesterday I was in the dog house, whereas today I\'92m the golden boy. I even got a call from the captain about a possible commendation. Can you believe it?\'94\par
\'93You deserve it,\'94 Laurie said.\par
\'93Hey, if I get one, you guys should get one, too,\'94 Lou said.\par
Jack felt someone tap on his arm. It was the waitress. She asked if they wanted another round.\par
\'93Hey, everybody?\'94 Jack called out above the babble of voices. \'93More beer?\'94\par
Jack looked first at Natalie who put her hand over her glass to indicate she was fine. She looked radiant in a dark purple jumpsuit. She was a third-grade teacher at a public school in Harlem, but didn\'92t look like any teacher Jack could remember. From Jack\'92s perspective her features were reminiscent of the Egyptian sculptures in the Metropolitan Museum that Laurie had dragged him in to see. Her eyes were almond-shaped and her lips were full and generous. Her hair was done up in the most elaborate corn-row style that Jack had ever seen. Natalie had said that it was her sister\'92s forte.\par
When Jack looked at Warren to see whether he wanted more beer, he shook his head. Warren was sitting next to Natalie. He was wearing a sport jacket over a black T-shirt that somehow managed to hide his powerful physique. He looked happier than Jack had ever seen him. His mouth harbored a half smile instead of his normal expression of hard-lipped determination.\par
\'93I\'92m fine,\'94 Esteban called out. He, too, was smiling, even more broadly than Warren.\par
Jack looked at Laurie. \'93No more for me. I want to save some room for wine with dinner on the plane.\'94 Laurie had her auburn hair braided and was wearing a loose-fitting velour top with leggings. With her relaxed, ebullient demeanor and casual clothes Jack thought she looked like she was in college.\par
\'93Yeah, sure, I\'92ll have another beer,\'94 Lou said.\par
\'93One beer,\'94 Jack told the waitress. \'93Then the check.\'94\par
\'93How\'92d you guys make out today?\'94 Lou asked Jack and Laurie.\par
\'93We\'92re here,\'94 Jack said. \'93That was the goal. Laurie and the others got the visas, and I got the tickets.\'94 He patted his stomach. \'93I also got a bunch of French francs and a money belt. I was told that the French franc was the hard currency of choice for that part of Africa.\'94\par
\'93What\'92s going to happen when you arrive?\'94 Lou asked.\par
Jack pointed over to Esteban. \'93Our expatriate traveling companion has taken care of the arrangements. His cousin\'92s meeting us at the airport, and his wife\'92s brother has a hotel.\'94\par
\'93You should be fine,\'94 Lou said. \'93What\'92s your plan?\'94\par
\'93Esteban\'92s cousin has arranged for us to rent a van,\'94 Jack said. \'93So we\'92ll drive to Cogo.\'94\par
\'93And just drop in?\'94 Lou asked.\par
\'93That\'92s the idea,\'94 Jack said.\par
\'93Good luck,\'94 Lou said.\par
\'93Thanks,\'94 Jack said. \'93We\'92ll probably need it.\'94\par
A half hour later the group\'97minus Lou\'97merrily boarded the 747. They found their seats and stowed their carry-on baggage. No sooner had they gotten themselves situated than the huge plane lurched and was pulled from the gate.\par
Later when the engines began to scream and the plane began its dash down the runway to takeoff, Laurie felt Jack take her hand. He gripped it fiercely.\par
\'93Are you okay?\'94 she asked.\par
Jack nodded. \'93I\'92ve just learned not to like air travel,\'94 he said.\par
Laurie understood.\par
\'93We\'92re on our way,\'94 Warren exclaimed gleefully. \'93Africa, here we come!\'94\par
\par
\par
\pard\qj\fs32 CHAPTER 19\par
\pard\fi283\qj\fs24\par
\pard\qr MARCH 8, 1997\par
2:00 A.M.\par
COGO, EQUATORIAL GUINEA\par
\pard\fi283\qj\par
\pard\qj\'93ARE you asleep?\'94 Candace whispered.\par
\pard\fi283\qj\'93Are you kidding?\'94 Melanie whispered back. \'93How am I supposed to sleep on rock with just a few branches strewn over it?\'94\par
\'93I can\'92t sleep either,\'94 Candace admitted. \'93Especially with all this snoring going on. What about Kevin?\'94\par
\'93I\'92m awake,\'94 Kevin said.\par
They were in a small side cave jutting off the main chamber just behind the main entrance. The darkness was almost absolute. The only light came from meager moonlight reflected from outside.\par
Kevin, Melanie, and Candace had been shuttled into this small cave immediately on their arrival. It measured about ten feet wide with a downward sloping ceiling that started at a maximum height roughly equivalent to Kevin\'92s five feet ten inches. There was no back wall to this cave; the chamber simply narrowed to a tunnel. Earlier in the evening, Kevin had explored the tunnel with the help of the flashlight in hopes of finding another way out, but the tunnel abruptly ended after about thirty feet.\par
The bonobos had treated them well, even after the initially cold reception by the females. Apparently, the animals were mystified by the humans and intended to keep them alive and well. They\'92d provided them with muddy water in gourds and a variety of food. Unfortunately, the food was in the form of grubs, maggots, and other insects along with some kind of sedge from Lago Hippo.\par
Later in the afternoon, the animals had started a fire at the cave\'92s entrance. Kevin was particularly interested in how they started it, but he\'92d been too far back to observe their method. A group of the bonobos had formed a tight circle, and then a half an hour later a fire was going.\par
\'93Well, that answers the question about the smoke,\'94 Kevin had said.\par
The animals had skewered the colobus monkeys and roasted them over the fire. The monkeys were then torn apart and distributed with great fanfare. Given all the hooting and vocalizations it had been obvious to the humans that this monkey meat was considered a great treat.\par
Bonobo number one had placed a few morsels of the feast on a large leaf and brought them back to the humans. Only Kevin had been willing to try it. He\'92d said it was the toughest thing he\'92d ever chewed. As far as taste was concerned, he\'92d told the women that it was strangely similar to the elephant he\'92d once sampled. The previous year, Siegfried had bagged a forest elephant on one of his hunting forays and after taking the tusks, he\'92d had some of the meat cooked up by the central kitchen.\par
The bonobos had not tried to imprison the humans and had not tried to inhibit Kevin and the women from untying the rope that bound them together. At the same time, the bonobos had made it clear that they were to stay in the small cave. At all times, at least two of the larger male bonobos remained in the immediate vicinity. Each time Kevin or one of the women tried to venture forth, these guards would screech and howl at the top of their lungs. Even more threatening, they would ferociously charge with bared teeth only to pull up short at the last minute. Thus they effectively kept the humans in their place.\par
\'93We\'92re going to have to do something,\'94 Melanie said. \'93We can\'92t stay here forever. And it\'92s pretty apparent we\'92ll have to do it while they are all sleeping, like now.\'94\par
Every bonobo in the cave, including the supposed guards, were fast asleep on primitive pallets constructed of branches and leaves. Most were snoring.\par
\'93I don\'92t think we should take the chance of angering them,\'94 Kevin said. \'93We\'92re lucky they\'92ve treated us as well as they have.\'94\par
\'93Being offered maggots to eat is not what I\'92d call being well treated,\'94 Melanie said. \'93Seriously, we have to do something. Besides, they might turn on us. There\'92s no way to anticipate what they\'92ll do.\'94\par
\'93I prefer to wait,\'94 Kevin said. \'93We\'92re a novelty now, but they\'92ll lose interest in us. Besides, we\'92re undoubtedly missed back in town. It won\'92t take Siegfried or Bertram that long to figure out what we\'92ve done. Then they\'92ll come for us.\'94\par
\'93I\'92m not convinced,\'94 Melanie said. \'93Siegfried might take our disappearance as a godsend.\'94\par
\'93Siegfried might, but Bertram won\'92t,\'94 Kevin said. \'93He\'92s basically a nice person.\'94\par
\'93What do you think, Candace?\'94 Melanie asked.\par
\'93I don\'92t know what to think,\'94 Candace said. \'93This situation is so far beyond anything I\'92d ever thought I\'92d be involved in, that I don\'92t know how to react. I\'92m numb.\'94\par
\'93What are we going to do when we do get back?\'94 Kevin said. \'93We haven\'92t talked about that.\'94\par
\'93\i If\i0  we get back,\'94 Melanie said.\par
\'93Don\'92t talk that way,\'94 Candace said.\par
\'93We have to face facts,\'94 Melanie said. \'93That\'92s why I think we should do something now while they\'92re all asleep.\'94\par
\'93We have no idea how soundly they sleep,\'94 Kevin said. \'93Trying to walk out of here will be like walking through a mine field.\'94\par
\'93One thing is for sure,\'94 Candace said. \'93I\'92m not going to be involved in any more harvests. I began to feel uncomfortable when I thought they were apes. Now that we know they\'92re protohumans, I can\'92t do it. I know that much about myself.\'94\par
\'93That\'92s a foregone conclusion,\'94 Kevin said. \'93I can\'92t imagine any sensitive human being would feel differently. But that\'92s not the issue. The issue is that this new race exists, and if they\'92re not to be used for transplants, what\'92s to be done with them?\'94\par
\'93Will they be able to reproduce?\'94 Candace asked.\par
\'93Most assuredly,\'94 Melanie said. \'93Nothing was done to them to affect their fertility.\'94\par
\'93Oh, my,\'94 Candace said. \'93This is a horror.\'94\par
\'93Maybe they should be rendered infertile,\'94 Melanie said. \'93Then there\'92d only be a single generation to consider.\'94\par
\'93I wish I\'92d thought of all this before I started this project,\'94 Kevin said. \'93The problem was that once I stumbled onto the ability to interchange chromosomal parts, the intellectual stimulation was so strong I never considered other consequences.\'94\par
There was a sudden, bright flash of lightning momentarily illuminating the interior of the cave, followed by a loud clap of thunder. The concussion seemed to shake the entire mountain. The violent display was nature\'92s way of announcing that one of the almost daily thunderstorms was about to inundate the island.\par
\'93Now, that\'92s an argument in favor of my position,\'94 Melanie said, after the sound of the thunder died away.\par
\'93What are you talking about?\'94 Kevin asked.\par
\'93That thunder was loud enough to wake the dead,\'94 Melanie explained. \'93And not one of the bonobos so much as blinked.\'94\par
\'93It\'92s true,\'94 Candace said.\par
\'93I think at least one of us should try to get out of here,\'94 Melanie said. \'93That way we could be sure that Bertram will be alerted as to what is happening out here. Bertram can also make arrangements for someone to come here and rescue the others.\'94\par
\'93I guess I agree,\'94 Candace said.\par
\'93Of course you do,\'94 Melanie said.\par
There were a few moments of silence. Finally, Kevin broke it: \'93Wait a second. You guys are not suggesting that I go?\'94\par
\'93I couldn\'92t get in the canoe much less paddle it,\'94 Melanie said.\par
\'93I could get in it, but I doubt I could paddle it in the dark,\'94 Candace said.\par
\'93And you two think I could?\'94 Kevin asked.\par
\'93Certainly better than we could,\'94 Melanie said.\par
Kevin shivered. The idea of trying to get to the canoe in the dark knowing the hippos were out grazing was a scary thought. Even more scary was trying to paddle across the pond, knowing it was filled with crocodiles.\par
\'93Maybe you could hide in the canoe until it gets light,\'94 Melanie suggested. \'93The important thing is to get out of this cave and away from these creatures while they are sleeping.\'94\par
The idea of waiting in the canoe was better than trying to cross the lake in the darkness, but it did not address the potential problem of running into the hippos in the marshy field.\par
\'93Remember it was your suggestion to come out here,\'94 Melanie reminded him.\par
Kevin started to strongly protest, but he stopped. In a way, it was true. He\'92d said that the only way to learn whether the bonobos were protohumans was to come to the island. But from then on, Melanie had been the one to call the shots.\par
\'93It was your suggestion,\'94 Candace said. \'93I remember it well. We were in your office. It was when you first raised the question about the smoke.\'94\par
\'93But I only said\~.\~.\~.\'94 Kevin began, but he stopped. From past experience, he knew he was ill-equipped to argue with Melanie, and especially when Candace supported her as she was now doing. Besides, from where Kevin was sitting, he could see a clear path of moonlight along the cave floor all the way to the entrance. Except for a few rocks and branches, there were no obstructions.\par
Kevin began to think maybe he could do it. Maybe it was best not to think of the hippos. Maybe it was true that the creatures\'92 hospitality could not be counted upon, not because of the bonobo part of their heritage but because of the human part.\par
\'93All right,\'94 Kevin said with sudden resolve. \'93I\'92ll try.\'94\par
\'93Hooray,\'94 Melanie said.\par
Kevin pushed himself up onto his hands and knees. He was already trembling with the knowledge that there were fifty powerful and wild animals in the immediate environment that wanted him to stay where he was.\par
\'93If something goes wrong,\'94 Melanie said, \'93just get yourself back here in a hurry.\'94\par
\'93You make it sound so easy,\'94 Kevin said.\par
\'93It will be,\'94 Melanie said. \'93Bonobos and chimps fall asleep as soon as it gets dark and sleep until dawn. You\'92re not going to have any trouble.\'94\par
\'93But what about the hippos?\'94 Kevin said.\par
\'93What about them?\'94 Melanie asked.\par
\'93Never mind,\'94 Kevin said. \'93I\'92ve got enough to worry about.\'94\par
\'93Okay, good luck,\'94 Melanie whispered.\par
\'93Yeah, good luck,\'94 Candace echoed.\par
Kevin tried to stand up and start out, but he couldn\'92t. He kept telling himself that he\'92d never been a hero, and this was no time to start.\par
\'93What\'92s the matter?\'94 Melanie asked.\par
\'93Nothing,\'94 Kevin said. Then suddenly from some place deep within himself, Kevin found the courage. He rose to a hunched-over position and began to pick his way along the path of moonlight toward the mouth of the cave.\par
As Kevin moved, he debated whether he would do better to move at a snail\'92s pace or make an out-and-out dash for the canoe. It was an argument between caution and getting the ordeal over with. Caution won out. He moved with painstaking baby steps. Every time his foot made the slightest noise, he winced and froze in the darkness. All around him, he could hear the stertorous breathing of the sleeping creatures.\par
Twenty feet from the cave\'92s entrance one of the bonobos moved so suddenly, the branches in his bed snapped. Again Kevin stopped in mid-stride, his heart pounding. But the bonobo had only stirred and was still breathing heavily, a sign of sleep. With additional light from the proximity of the cave entrance, Kevin could clearly see the bonobos sprawled about him. The sight of so many sleeping beasts was enough to stop him dead in his tracks. After a full minute of paralysis Kevin recommenced his progress toward freedom. He even began to feel the first wave of relief as the smell of the damp jungle replaced the feral scent of the bonobos. But that relief was short-lived.\par
Another clap of thunder followed by a sudden tropical downpour scared Kevin to the point that he almost lost his balance. It was only after frantic arm swinging that he managed to stay upright and in his planned path. He shuddered to think how close he\'92d come to stepping on one of the sleeping bonobos.\par
With another ten feet to go, Kevin could now see the black silhouette of the jungle below. The nocturnal sounds of the jungle were now audible over the bonobos\'92 snores.\par
Kevin was close enough to begin worrying about how to make the steep descent to the ground when calamity struck. His heart leaped into his throat as he felt a hand on his leg! Something had grabbed him around the ankle with such force that instant tears formed in his eyes. Looking down in the half light, the first thing he saw was his watch. It was on the hairy wrist of the powerful bonobo number one.\par
\'93Tada,\'94 shouted the bonobo as he leaped to his feet, upending Kevin in the process. Luckily, the floor of that part of the cave was covered with refuse which broke Kevin\'92s fall. Nevertheless, he landed on his left hip in a jarring fashion.\par
Bonobo number one\'92s yell brought the other bonobos to their feet. For a moment, there was utter chaos until they all understood that there was no danger.\par
Bonobo number one let go of Kevin\'92s ankle only to reach down and grasp him by his upper arms. In an amazing demonstration of strength, he picked Kevin up and held him off the ground at arm\'92s length.\par
The bonobo gave a loud, long, angry vocalization. All Kevin could do was wince in pain at the animal\'92s tight grip.\par
At the end of his tirade, bonobo number one marched into the depths of the cave and literally tossed Kevin into the smaller chamber. After a final angry word, he went back to his pallet.\par
Kevin managed to push himself up to a sitting position. He\'92d again landed on his hip, and it felt numb. He\'92d also sprained a wrist and scraped an elbow. But considering the fact that he\'92d been literally thrown through the air, he was better off than he\'92d anticipated.\par
More cries echoed inside of the cave, presumably from bonobo number one, but Kevin couldn\'92t tell for certain in the darkness. He felt his right elbow. He knew that the sticky warmth had to be blood.\par
\'93Kevin?\'94 Melanie whispered. \'93Are you okay?\'94\par
\'93As good as can be expected,\'94 Kevin said.\par
\'93Thank God,\'94 Melanie said. \'93What happened?\'94\par
\'93I don\'92t know,\'94 Kevin said. \'93I\'92d thought I\'92d made it. I was right at the cave\'92s entrance.\'94\par
\'93Are you hurt?\'94 Candace asked.\par
\'93A little,\'94 Kevin admitted. \'93But no broken bones. At least, I don\'92t think so.\'94\par
\'93We couldn\'92t see what happened,\'94 Melanie said.\par
\'93My double scolded me,\'94 Kevin said. \'93At least that\'92s what I think he was doing. Then he threw me back in here. I\'92m glad I didn\'92t land on either of you.\'94\par
\'93I\'92m so sorry I encouraged you to go,\'94 Melanie said. \'93I guess you were right.\'94\par
\'93It\'92s good of you to say,\'94 Kevin said. \'93Well, it almost worked. I was so close.\'94\par
Candace switched on the flashlight with her hand shielding the front lens. She held it near Kevin\'92s arm to check his elbow.\par
\'93I guess we\'92re going to have to count on Bertram Edwards,\'94 Melanie said. She shuddered and then sighed. \'93It\'92s hard to believe: we\'92re prisoners of our own creations.\'94\par
\pard\fi284\qj\par
\par
\pard\qj\fs32 CHAPTER 20\par
\pard\fi284\qj\fs24\par
\pard\qr MARCH 8, 1997\par
4:40 P.M.\par
BATA, EQUATORIAL GUINEA\par
\pard\fi284\qj\par
\pard\qj JACK realized he\'92d been clenching his teeth. He was also holding Laurie\'92s hand much harder than was reasonable. Consciously, he tried to relax. The problem had been the flight from Douala, Cameroon, to Bata. The airline was a fly-by-night outfit that used small, old commuter planes, just the kind of aircraft that plagued Jack\'92s nightmares about his late family.\par
\pard\fi283\qj The flight had not been easy. The plane constantly dodged thunderstorms whose towering clouds varied in color from whipped-cream white to deep purple. Lightning had flashed constantly, and the turbulence was fierce.\par
The previous part of the trip had been a dream. The flight from New York to Paris had been smooth and blissfully uneventful. Everyone had slept at least a few hours.\par
Arrival in Paris had been ten minutes early, so they\'92d had ample time to make their connection with Cameroon Airlines. Everyone slept even more on the flight south to Douala. But that final leg to Bata was a hair-raiser.\par
\'93We\'92re landing,\'94 Laurie said to Jack.\par
\'93I hope it is a controlled landing,\'94 Jack quipped.\par
He looked out the dirty window. As he\'92d expected, the landscape was a carpet of uninterrupted green. As the tops of the trees came closer and closer, he hoped there was a runway ahead.\par
Eventually, they touched down onto tarmac, and Jack and Warren breathed simultaneous sighs of relief.\par
As the weary travelers climbed out of the small, aged plane, Jack looked across the ill-maintained runway and saw a strange sight. It was a resplendent white jet sitting all by itself against the dark green of the jungle. At four points surrounding the plane were soldiers in camouflage fatigues and red berets. Although ostensibly standing upright, they\'92d all assumed varying postures of repose. Automatic rifles were casually slung over their shoulders.\par
\'93Whose plane?\'94 Jack asked Esteban. With no markings it was apparent it was a private jet.\par
\'93I can\'92t imagine,\'94 Esteban said.\par
Everyone except Esteban was unprepared for the chaos in the airport arrival area. All foreign arrivals had to go through Customs. The group was taken along with their luggage to a side room. They were led to this unlikely spot by two men in dirty uniforms with automatic pistols bolstered in their belts.\par
At first Esteban had been excluded from the room, but after a loud argument on his part in a local dialect, he was allowed in. The men opened all the bags and spread the contents onto a picnic-sized table.\par
Esteban told Jack the men expected bribes. At first Jack refused on principle. When it became apparent that the standoff was going to last for hours, Jack relented. Ten French francs solved the problem.\par
As they exited into the main part of the airport, Esteban apologized. \'93It\'92s a problem here,\'94 he said. \'93All government people take bribes.\'94\par
They were met by Esteban\'92s cousin whose name was Arturo. He was a heavyset, enormously friendly individual with bright eyes and flashing teeth who shook hands enthusiastically with everyone. He was attired in native African costume: flowing robes in a colorful print and a pillbox hat.\par
They stepped out of the airport into the hot, humid air of equatorial Africa. The vistas in all directions seemed immense since the land was relatively flat. The late-afternoon sky was a faraway blue directly overhead, but enormous thunderheads were nestled all along the horizon.\par
\'93Man, I can\'92t believe this,\'94 Warren said. He was gazing around like a kid in a toy store. \'93I\'92ve been thinking about coming here for years, but I never thought I\'92d make it.\'94 He looked at Jack. \'93Thanks, man. Give it here!\'94 Warren stuck out his hand. He and Jack exchanged palm slaps as if they were back on the neighborhood basketball court.\par
Arturo had the rented van parked at curbside. He slipped a couple of bills into the palm of a policeman and gestured for everyone to climb in.\par
Esteban insisted that Jack ride in the front passenger seat. Too tired to argue, Jack climbed in. The vehicle was an old Toyota with two rows of benches behind the front bucket seats. Laurie and Natalie squeezed into the very back while Warren and Esteban took the middle.\par
As they exited the airport they had a view out over the ocean. The beach was broad and sandy. Gentle waves lapped the shore.\par
After a short distance, they passed a large unfinished cement structure that was weathered and crumbling. Rusted rebars stuck out of the top like the spines of sea urchins. Jack asked what it was.\par
\'93It was supposed to be a tourist hotel,\'94 Arturo said. \'93But there was no money and no tourists.\'94\par
\'93That\'92s a bad combination for business,\'94 Jack said.\par
While Esteban played tour guide and pointed out various sights, Jack asked Arturo if they had far to go.\par
\'93No, ten minutes,\'94 Arturo said.\par
\'93I understand you worked for GenSys,\'94 Jack said.\par
\'93For three years,\'94 Arturo said. \'93But no more. The manager is a bad person. I prefer to stay in Bata. I\'92m lucky to have work.\'94\par
\'93We want to tour the GenSys facility,\'94 Jack said. \'93Do you think we\'92ll have any trouble?\'94\par
\'93They don\'92t expect you?\'94 Arturo asked with bewilderment.\par
\'93Nope,\'94 Jack said. \'93It\'92s a surprise visit.\'94\par
\'93Then you may have trouble,\'94 Arturo said. \'93I don\'92t think they like visitors. When they repaired the only road to Cogo, they built a gate. It\'92s manned twenty-four hours a day by soldiers.\'94\par
\'93Uh-oh!\'94 Jack said. \'93That doesn\'92t sound good.\'94 He\'92d not expected restricted access to the town and had counted on being able to drive in directly. Where he expected to have trouble was getting into the hospital or the labs.\par
\'93When Esteban called to say you were going to Cogo, I thought you\'92d been invited,\'94 Arturo said. \'93I didn\'92t think to mention the gate.\'94\par
\'93I understand,\'94 Jack said. \'93It\'92s not your fault. Tell me, do you think the soldiers would take money to let us in?\'94\par
Arturo flashed a glance in Jack\'92s direction. He shrugged. \'93I don\'92t know. They\'92re better paid than regular soldiers.\'94\par
\'93How far is the gate from the town?\'94 Jack asked. \'93Could someone walk through the forest and just pass the gate?\'94\par
Arturo glanced at Jack again. The conversation had taken a turn in a direction he\'92d not expected.\par
\'93It is quite far,\'94 Arturo said evincing some unease. \'93Maybe five kilometers. And it is not easy to walk in the jungle. It can be dangerous.\'94\par
\'93And there is only one road?\'94 Jack asked.\par
\'93Only one road,\'94 Arturo agreed.\par
\'93I saw on a map that Cogo is on the water,\'94 Jack said. \'93What about arriving by boat?\'94\par
\'93I suppose,\'94 Arturo said.\par
\'93Where could someone find a boat?\'94 Jack asked.\par
\'93In Acalayong,\'94 Arturo said. \'93There are many boats there. That\'92s how to go to Gabon.\'94\par
\'93And there would be boats to rent?\'94 Jack asked.\par
\'93With enough money,\'94 Arturo said.\par
They were now passing through the center of Bata. It was composed of surprisingly broad tree-lined, litter-strewn streets. There were lots of people out and about but relatively few vehicles. The buildings were all low concrete structures.\par
On the south side of town, they turned off the main street and made their way along a rutted unpaved road. There were large puddles from a recent rain.\par
The hotel was an unimposing two-story concrete building with rusted rebars sticking out the top for potential future upward expansion. The facade had been painted blue but the color had faded to an indistinct pastel.\par
The moment they stopped, an army of congenial children and adults emerged from the front door. Everyone was introduced down to the youngest, shy child. It turned out that several multigenerational families lived on the first floor. The second floor was the hotel.\par
The rooms turned out to be tiny but clean. They were all situated on the outside of the U-shaped building. Access was by way of a veranda open to the courtyard. There was a toilet and a shower on each end of the \'93U.\'94\par
After putting his bag in his room and appreciating the mosquito netting around the inordinately narrow bed, Jack went out onto the veranda. Laurie came out of her room. Together, they leaned on the balustrade and peered down into the courtyard. It was an interesting combination of banana trees, discarded tires, naked infants, and chickens.\par
\'93Not quite the Four Seasons,\'94 Jack said.\par
Laurie smiled. \'93It\'92s charming. I\'92m happy. There\'92s not a bug in my room. That had been my main worry.\'94\par
The proprietors, Esteban\'92s brother-in-law, Florenico, and his wife, Celestina, had prepared a huge feast. The main course was a local fish served with a turniplike plant called \'93malanga.\'94 For dessert there was a type of pudding along with exotic fruit. An ample supply of ice-cold Cameroonean beer helped wash it all down.\par
The combination of plentiful food and beer took a toll on the exhausted travelers. It wasn\'92t long before all of them were fighting drooping eyelids. With some effort, they dragged themselves upstairs to their separate rooms, full of plans to rise early and head south in the morning.\par
\par
\pard\qj Bertram climbed the stairs to Siegfried\'92s office. He was exhausted. It was almost eight-thirty at night, and he\'92d been up since five-thirty that morning to accompany the animal handlers out to Isla Francesca to help get the mass retrieval under way. They\'92d worked all day and only returned to the animal center an hour earlier.\par
\pard\fi283\qj Aurielo had long since gone home, so Bertram walked directly into the manager\'92s office. Siegfried was by the window facing the square with a glass in his hand. He was staring over at the hospital. The only light in the room was from the candle in the skull, just as it had been three nights before. Its flame flickered from the action of the overhead fan, sending shadows dancing across the stuffed animal trophies.\par
\'93Make yourself a drink,\'94 Siegfried said, without turning around. He knew it was Bertram, since they\'92d talked on the phone a half an hour earlier and made plans to meet.\par
Bertram was more of a wine drinker than an imbiber of hard alcohol, but under the circumstances he poured himself a double scotch. He sipped the fiery fluid as he joined Siegfried at the window. The lights of the hospital lab complex glowed warmly in the moist tropical night.\par
\'93Did you know Taylor Cabot was coming?\'94 Bertram asked.\par
\'93I hadn\'92t the faintest idea,\'94 Siegfried said.\par
\'93What did you do with him?\'94 Bertram asked.\par
Siegfried gestured toward the hospital. \'93He\'92s at the Inn. I had the chief surgeon move out of what we call the presidential suite. Of course, he was none too happy. You know how these egotistical doctors are. But what was I supposed to do? It\'92s not like I\'92m running a hotel here.\'94\par
\'93Do you know why Cabot came?\'94 Bertram asked.\par
\'93Raymond said that he came specifically to evaluate the bonobo program,\'94 Siegfried said.\par
\'93I was afraid of that,\'94 Bertram said.\par
\'93It\'92s just our luck,\'94 Siegfried complained. \'93The program has been running like a Swiss clock for years on end, and just when we have a problem, he shows up.\'94\par
\'93What did you do with Raymond?\'94 Bertram asked.\par
\'93He\'92s over there, too,\'94 Siegfried said. \'93He\'92s a pain in the ass. He wanted to be away from Cabot, but where was I supposed to put him: in my house? No thank you!\'94\par
\'93Has he asked about Kevin Marshall?\'94 Bertram asked.\par
\'93Of course,\'94 Siegfried said. \'93As soon as he got me aside, it was his first question.\'94\par
\'93What did you say?\'94\par
\'93I told the truth,\'94 Siegfried said. \'93I told him Kevin had gone off with the reproductive technologist and the intensive care nurse and that I had no idea where he was.\'94\par
\'93What was his reaction?\'94\par
\'93He got red in the face,\'94 Siegfried said. \'93He wanted to know if Kevin had gone to the island. I told him that we didn\'92t think so. Then he ordered me to find him. Can you imagine? I don\'92t take orders from Raymond Lyons.\'94\par
\'93So Kevin and the women have not reappeared?\'94 Bertram asked.\par
\'93No, and not a word,\'94 Siegfried said.\par
\'93Have you made any effort to find them?\'94 Bertram asked.\par
\'93I sent Cameron over to Acalayong to check out those cheap hotels along the waterfront, but he didn\'92t have any luck. I\'92m thinking they might have gone over to Cocobeach in Gabon. That\'92s what makes the most sense, but why they didn\'92t tell anyone is beyond me.\'94\par
\'93What a God-awful mess,\'94 Bertram commented.\par
\'93How did you do on the island?\'94 Siegfried asked.\par
\'93We did well, considering how fast we had to put the operation together,\'94 Bertram said. \'93We got an all-terrain vehicle over there with a wagon. It was all we could think of to get that many animals back to the staging area.\'94\par
\'93How many animals did you get?\'94\par
\'93Twenty-one,\'94 Bertram said. \'93Which is a tribute to my crew. It suggests we\'92ll be able to finish up by tomorrow.\'94\par
\'93So soon,\'94 Siegfried commented. \'93That\'92s the first encouraging news all day.\'94\par
\'93It\'92s easier than we anticipated,\'94 Bertram said. \'93The animals seem enthralled by us. They are trusting enough to let us get close with the dart gun. It\'92s like a turkey shoot.\'94\par
\'93I\'92m glad something is going right,\'94 Siegfried said.\par
\'93The twenty-one animals we got today were all part of the splinter group living north of the Rio Diviso. It was interesting how they were living. They\'92d made crude huts on stilts with roofs of layered lobelia leaves.\'94\par
\'93I don\'92t give a damn how those animals were living,\'94 Siegfried snapped. \'93Don\'92t tell me you\'92re going soft, too.\'94\par
\'93No, I\'92m not going soft,\'94 Bertram said. \'93But I still find it interesting. There was also evidence of campfires.\'94\par
\'93So, it\'92s good we\'92re putting them in the cages,\'94 Siegfried said. \'93They won\'92t be killing each other, and they won\'92t be playing around with fire.\'94\par
\'93That\'92s one way to look at it,\'94 Bertram agreed.\par
\'93Any sign of Kevin and the women on the island?\'94 Siegfried asked.\par
\'93Not in the slightest,\'94 Bertram said. \'93And I made it a point to look. But even in areas they would have left footprints, there was nothing. We spent part of today building a log bridge over the Rio Diviso, so tomorrow we\'92ll start retrievals near the limestone cliffs. I\'92ll keep my eyes open for signs they\'92d been there.\'94\par
\'93I doubt you\'92ll find anything, but until they are located we shouldn\'92t rule out the possibility they went to the island. But I\'92ll tell you, if they did go, and they come back here, I\'92ll turn them over to the Equatoguinean minister of justice with the charge that they have severely compromised the GenSys operation. Of course, that means they\'92ll be lined up out in the soccer field in front of a firing squad before they knew what hit them.\'94\par
\'93Nothing like that could happen until Cabot and the others leave,\'94 Bertram said with alarm.\par
\'93Obviously,\'94 Siegfried said. \'93Besides, I mentioned the soccer field only figuratively. I\'92d tell the minister they\'92d have to be taken out of the Zone to be shot.\'94\par
\'93Any idea when Cabot and the others will be taking the patient back to the States?\'94\par
\'93No one has said anything,\'94 Siegfried said. \'93I guess it\'92s up to Cabot. I hope it will be tomorrow, or at the very latest, the following day.\'94\par
\par
\par
\pard\qj\fs32 CHAPTER 21\par
\pard\fi283\qj\fs24\par
\pard\qr MARCH 9, 1997\par
4:30 A.M.\par
BATA, EQUATORIAL GUINEA\par
\pard\fi283\qj\par
\pard\qj JACK awakened at four-thirty and was unable to get back to sleep. Ironically, the racket made by tree frogs and crickets in the courtyard banana trees was too much even for someone fully adjusted to the noisy sirens and general din of New York City.\par
\pard\fi283\qj Taking his towel and his soap, Jack stepped out on the veranda and started for the shower. Midway, he bumped into Laurie on her way back.\par
\'93What are you doing up?\'94 Jack asked. It was still pitch dark outside.\par
\'93We went to bed around eight,\'94 Laurie said. \'93Eight hours: that\'92s a reasonable night\'92s sleep for me.\'94\par
\'93You\'92re right,\'94 Jack said. He\'92d forgotten how early it was when they\'92d all collapsed.\par
\'93I\'92ll go down into the kitchen area and see if I can find any coffee,\'94 Laurie said.\par
\'93I\'92ll be right down,\'94 Jack said.\par
By the time Jack got downstairs to the dining room, he was surprised to find the rest of his group already having breakfast. Jack got a cup of coffee and some bread and sat down between Warren and Esteban.\par
\'93Arturo mentioned to me that he thought you were crazy to go to Cogo without an invitation,\'94 Esteban said.\par
With his mouth full, all Jack could do was nod.\par
\'93He told me you won\'92t get in,\'94 Esteban said.\par
\'93We\'92ll see,\'94 Jack said after swallowing. \'93I\'92ve come this far, so I\'92m not going to turn back without making an effort.\'94\par
\'93At least the road is good, thanks to GenSys,\'94 Esteban said.\par
\'93Worst case, we\'92ve had an interesting drive,\'94 Jack said.\par
An hour later, everyone met again in the dining room. Jack reminded the others that going to Cogo wasn\'92t a command performance, and that those people who preferred to stay in Bata should do so. He said that he\'92d been told it might take four hours each way.\par
\'93You think you can make out on your own?\'94 Esteban asked.\par
\'93Absolutely,\'94 Jack said. \'93It\'92s not as if we\'92ll be getting lost. The map indicates only one main road heading south. Even I can handle that.\'94\par
\'93Then I think I\'92ll stay,\'94 Esteban said. \'93I have more family I\'92d like to see.\'94\par
By the time they were on the road with Warren in the front passenger seat and the two women in the middle seat, the eastern sky was just beginning to show a faint glow of dawn. As they drove south they were shocked at how many people were walking along the road on their way into the city. There were mostly women and children and most of the women were carrying large bundles on their heads.\par
\'93They don\'92t seem to have much, but they appear happy,\'94 Warren commented. Many of the children stopped to wave at the passing van. Warren waved back.\par
The outskirts of Bata dragged by. The cement buildings eventually changed to simple whitewashed mud brick structures with thatched roofs. Reed mats formed corrals for goats.\par
Once completely out of Bata, they began to see stretches of incredibly lush jungle.\par
Traffic was almost nonexistent save for occasional large trucks going in the opposite direction. As the trucks went by, the wind jostled the van.\par
\'93Man, those truckers move,\'94 Warren commented.\par
Fifteen miles south of Bata, Warren got out the map. There was one fork and one turn in the road that they had to navigate appropriately or lose considerable time. Signs were almost nonexistent.\par
When the sun came up, they all donned their sunglasses. The scenery became monotonous, uninterrupted jungle except for occasional tiny clusters of thatched huts. Almost two hours after they\'92d left Bata, they turned onto the road that led to Cogo.\par
\'93This is a much better road,\'94 Warren commented as Jack accelerated up to cruising speed.\par
\'93It looks new,\'94 Jack said. The previous road had been reasonably smooth, although its surface appeared like a patchwork quilt from all the separate repairs.\par
They were now heading southeast away from the coast and into considerably denser jungle. They also began to climb. In the distance they could see low, jungle-covered mountains.\par
Seemingly out of nowhere came a violent thunderstorm. Just prior to its arrival the sky became a swirling mass of dark clouds. Day turned to night in the space of several minutes. Once the rain started, it came down in sheets, and the van\'92s old, ragged windshield wipers could not keep up with the downpour. Jack had to slow to less than twenty miles an hour.\par
Fifteen minutes later, the sun poked out between massive clouds, turning the road into a ribbon of rising steam. On a straight stretch, a group of baboons crossing the road looked as if they were walking on a cloud.\par
After passing through the mountains, the road turned back to the southeast. Warren consulted the map and told everyone they were within twenty miles of their destination.\par
Rounding another turn, they all saw what looked like a white building in the middle of the road.\par
\'93What the hell\'92s this?\'94 Warren said. \'93We\'92re not there yet, no way.\'94\par
\'93I think it\'92s a gate,\'94 Jack said. \'93I was told about this only last night. Keep your fingers crossed. We might have to switch to plan B.\'94\par
As they got closer, they could see that on either side of the central structure were enormous white, lattice-work fences. They were on a roller mechanism so they could be drawn out of the way to permit vehicles to pass.\par
Jack braked and brought the van to a stop about twenty feet from the fence. Out of the two-story gate house stepped three soldiers dressed similarly to those who\'92d been guarding the private jet at the airport. Like the soldiers at the airport, these men were carrying assault rifles, only these men were holding their guns waist high, aimed at the van.\par
\'93I don\'92t like this,\'94 Warren said. \'93These guys look like kids.\'94\par
\'93Stay cool,\'94 Jack said. He rolled his window down. \'93Hi, guys. Nice day, huh?\'94\par
The soldiers didn\'92t move. Their blank expressions didn\'92t change.\par
Jack was about to ask them kindly to open the gate, when a fourth man stepped out into the sunlight. To Jack\'92s surprise, this man was pulling on a black suit jacket over a white shirt and tie. In the middle of the steaming jungle it was absurd. The other surprising thing was that the man wasn\'92t black. He was Arab.\par
\'93Can I help you?\'94 the Arab asked. His tone was not friendly.\par
\'93I hope so,\'94 Jack said. \'93We\'92re here to visit Cogo.\'94\par
The Arab glanced at the windshield of the vehicle, presumably looking for some identification. Not seeing it, he asked Jack if he had a pass.\par
\'93No pass,\'94 Jack admitted. \'93We\'92re just a couple of doctors interested in the work that\'92s going on here.\'94\par
\'93What is your name?\'94 the Arab asked.\par
\'93Dr. Jack Stapleton. I\'92ve come all the way from New York City.\'94\par
\'93Just a minute,\'94 the Arab said before disappearing back into the gate house.\par
\'93This doesn\'92t look good,\'94 Jack said to Warren out of the corner of his mouth. He smiled at the soldiers. \'93How much should I offer him? I\'92m not good at this bribing stuff.\'94\par
\'93Money must mean a lot more here than it does in New York,\'94 Warren said. \'93Why don\'92t you overwhelm him with a hundred dollars. I mean, if it\'92s worth it to you.\'94\par
Jack mentally converted a hundred dollars into French francs, then extracted the bills from his money belt. A few minutes later, the Arab returned.\par
\'93The manager says that he does not know you and that you are not welcome,\'94 the Arab said.\par
\'93Shucks,\'94 Jack said. Then he extended his left hand with the French francs casually stuck between his index finger and his ring finger. \'93We sure do appreciate your help.\'94\par
The Arab eyed the money for a moment before reaching out and taking it. It disappeared into his pocket in the blink of an eye.\par
Jack stared at him for a moment, but the man didn\'92t move. Jack found it difficult to read his expression because the man\'92s mustache obscured his mouth.\par
Jack turned to Warren. \'93Didn\'92t I give him enough?\'94\par
Warren shook his head. \'93I don\'92t think it\'92s going to happen.\'94\par
\'93You mean he just took my money and that\'92s that?\'94 Jack asked.\par
\'93Be my guess,\'94 Warren said.\par
Jack turned his attention back to the man in the black suit. Jack estimated he was about a hundred and fifty pounds, definitely on the thin side. For a moment Jack entertained the idea of getting out of the car and asking for his money back, but a glance at the soldiers made him think otherwise.\par
With a sigh of resignation Jack did a three-point turn and headed back the way they\'92d come.\par
\'93Phew!\'94 Laurie said from the backseat. \'93I did not like that one bit.\'94\par
\'93You didn\'92t like it?\'94 Jack questioned. \'93Now I\'92m pissed.\'94\par
\'93What\'92s plan B?\'94 Warren asked.\par
Jack explained about his idea of approaching Cogo by boat from Acalayong. He had Warren look at the map. Given how long it had taken them to get where they were, he asked Warren to estimate how long it would take to get to Acalayong.\par
\'93I\'92d say three hours,\'94 Warren said. \'93As long as the road stays good. The problem is we have to backtrack quite a way before heading south.\'94\par
Jack glanced at his watch. It was almost nine \scaps a.m\scaps0 . \'93That means we\'92d get there about noon. I\'92d judged we could get from Acalayong to Cogo in an hour, even in the world\'92s slowest boat. Say we stay in Cogo for a couple hours. I think we\'92d still get back at a reasonable hour. What do you guys say?\'94\par
\'93I\'92m cool,\'94 Warren said.\par
Jack looked in the rearview mirror. \'93I could take you ladies back to Bata and come back tomorrow.\'94\par
\'93My only reservation about any of us going is those soldiers with the assault rifles,\'94 Laurie said.\par
\'93I don\'92t think that\'92s a problem,\'94 Jack said. \'93If they have soldiers at the gate then they don\'92t need them in the town. Of course there\'92s always the chance they patrol the waterfront, which would mean I\'92d be forced to use plan C.\'94\par
\'93What\'92s plan C?\'94 Warren asked.\par
\'93I don\'92t know,\'94 Jack said. \'93I haven\'92t come up with it yet.\'94\par
\'93What about you, Natalie?\'94 Jack asked.\par
\'93I\'92m finding it all interesting,\'94 Natalie said. \'93I\'92ll go along with the crowd.\'94\par
It took almost an hour to get to the point where a decision had to be made. Jack pulled to the side of the road.\par
\'93What\'92s it going to be, gang?\'94 he asked. He wanted to be absolutely sure. \'93Back to Bata or on to Acalayong?\'94\par
\'93I think I\'92ll be more worried if you go by yourself,\'94 Laurie said. \'93Count me in.\'94\par
\'93Natalie?\'94 Jack said. \'93Don\'92t be influenced by these other crazies. What do you want to do?\'94\par
\'93I\'92ll go,\'94 Natalie said.\par
\'93Okay,\'94 Jack said. He put the car in gear and turned left toward Acalayong.\par
\par
\pard\qj Siegfried got up from his desk with his coffee mug in hand and walked to the window overlooking the square. He was mystified. The Cogo operation had been up and running for six years and never had they had someone come to the gate house and request entrance. Equatorial Guinea was not a place people visited casually.\par
\pard\fi283\qj Siegfried took a swig of his coffee and wondered if there could be any connection between this abnormal event and the arrival of Taylor Cabot, the CEO of GenSys. Both were unanticipated, and both were particularly unwelcome since they came just when there was a major problem with the bonobo project. Until that unfortunate situation was taken care of, Siegfried didn\'92t want any stray people around, and he put the CEO in that category.\par
Aurielo poked his head in the door and said that Dr. Raymond Lyons was there and wished to see him.\par
Siegfried rolled his eyes. He didn\'92t want Raymond around, either. \'93Send him in,\'94 Siegfried said reluctantly.\par
Raymond came into the room, looking as tanned and healthy as ever. Siegfried envied the man\'92s aristocratic appearance, and the fact that he had two good arms.\par
\'93Have you located Kevin Marshall yet?\'94 Raymond demanded.\par
\'93No, we haven\'92t,\'94 Siegfried said. He took immediate offense at Raymond\'92s tone.\par
\'93I understand it\'92s been forty-eight hours since he\'92s been seen,\'94 Raymond said. \'93I want him found!\'94\par
\'93Sit down, Doctor!\'94 Siegfried said sharply.\par
Raymond hesitated. He didn\'92t know whether to get angry or be intimidated by the manager\'92s sudden aggressiveness.\par
\'93I said sit!\'94 Siegfried said.\par
Raymond sat. The white hunter with his horrid scar and limp arm could be imposing, particularly surrounded by evidence of his extensive kills.\par
\'93Let us clear up a point involving the chain of command,\'94 Siegfried said. \'93I do not take orders from you. In fact, when you are here as a guest, you take orders from me. Is that understood?\'94\par
Raymond opened his mouth to protest but thought better of it. He knew Siegfried was technically correct.\par
\'93And while we are talking so directly,\'94 Siegfried added, \'93where is my retrieval bonus? In the past, I\'92ve always gotten it when the patient left the Zone on his way back to the States.\'94\par
\'93That\'92s true,\'94 Raymond said tautly. \'93But there have been major expenses. Money is coming in shortly from new clients. You\'92ll be paid as soon as it comes in.\'94\par
\'93I don\'92t want you to think you can give me the runaround,\'94 Siegfried warned.\par
\'93Of course not,\'94 Raymond blurted out.\par
\'93And one other thing,\'94 Siegfried said. \'93Isn\'92t there some way you can hasten the CEO\'92s departure? His presence here in Cogo is disrupting. Can\'92t you use the patient\'92s needs in some way?\'94\par
\'93I don\'92t see how,\'94 Raymond said. \'93He\'92s been informed the patient is capable of traveling. What more can I say?\'94\par
\'93Think of something,\'94 Siegfried said.\par
\'93I\'92ll try,\'94 Raymond said. \'93Meanwhile, please locate Kevin Marshall. His disappearance concerns me. I\'92m afraid he might do something rash.\'94\par
\'93We believe he went to Cocobeach in Gabon,\'94 Siegfried said. He was gratified with the appropriate subservience in Raymond\'92s voice.\par
\'93You\'92re sure he didn\'92t go to the island?\'94 Raymond asked.\par
\'93We can\'92t be totally sure,\'94 Siegfried admitted. \'93But we don\'92t think so. Even if he did, he wouldn\'92t be apt to stay there. He would have been back by now. It\'92s been forty-eight hours.\'94\par
Raymond stood up and sighed. \'93I wish he would turn up. Worrying about him is driving me up the wall, especially with Taylor Cabot here. It\'92s just something else in a long string of problems going on in New York that have threatened the program and made my life miserable.\'94\par
\'93We\'92ll continue to search,\'94 Siegfried assured him. He tried to sound sympathetic, but in actuality, he was wondering how Raymond was going to respond when he heard the bonobos were being rounded up to be brought into the animal center. All other problems paled in the face of the animals killing each other.\par
\'93I\'92ll try to think of something to say to Taylor Cabot,\'94 Raymond said as he started for the door. \'93If you could, I\'92d appreciate being informed the moment you hear about Kevin Marshall.\'94\par
\'93Certainly,\'94 Siegfried said obligingly. He watched with satisfaction as the previously proud doctor beat a meek retreat. Just as Raymond disappeared from view, Siegfried remembered that Raymond was from New York.\par
Siegfried dashed to his door, catching Raymond on his way down the stairs.\par
\'93Doctor,\'94 Siegfried called out with false deference.\par
Raymond paused and looked back.\par
\'93Do you happen to know a doctor by the name of Jack Stapleton?\'94\par
The blood drained from Raymond\'92s face.\par
This reaction was not lost on Siegfried. \'93I think you\'92d better come back into my office,\'94 the manager said.\par
Siegfried closed the door behind Raymond who immediately wanted to know how in the world the name \'93Jack Stapleton\'94 had come up.\par
Siegfried walked around his desk and sat down. He gestured toward a chair for Raymond. Siegfried was not happy. He\'92d briefly thought of relating the unexpected request for a site visit by strange doctors to Taylor Cabot. He\'92d not thought of relating it to Raymond.\par
\'93Just before you arrived I got an unusual call from our gate house,\'94 Siegfried said. \'93The Moroccan guard told me that there was a van full of people who wanted to tour the facility. We\'92ve never had uninvited visitors before. The van was driven by Dr. Jack Stapleton of New York City.\'94\par
Raymond wiped the perspiration that had appeared on his forehead. Then he ran both hands simultaneously through his hair. He kept telling himself that this couldn\'92t be happening since Vinnie Dominick was supposed to have taken care of Jack Stapleton and Laurie Montgomery. Raymond hadn\'92t called to find out what had happened to the two; he didn\'92t really want to know the details. For twenty thousand dollars, details weren\'92t something he should have to worry about\'97or so he thought. If pressed, he would have guessed that Stapleton and Montgomery were somewhere floating in the Atlantic Ocean about now.\par
\'93Your reaction to this is starting to concern me,\'94 Siegfried said.\par
\'93You didn\'92t let Stapleton and his friends in?\'94 Raymond asked.\par
\'93No, of course not,\'94 Siegfried said.\par
\'93Maybe you should have,\'94 Raymond said. \'93Then we could have dealt with them. Jack Stapleton is a very big danger to the program. I mean, is there a way here in the Zone to take care of such people?\'94\par
\'93There is,\'94 Siegfried said. \'93We just turn them over to the Equatoguinean minister of justice or the minister of defense along with a sizable bonus. Punishment is both discreet and very rapid. The government is eager to ensure that nothing threatens the goose that lays the golden egg. All we need to say is that they are seriously interfering with GenSys operations.\'94\par
\'93Then if they come back, I think you should let them in,\'94 Raymond said.\par
\'93Perhaps you should tell me why,\'94 Siegfried said.\par
\'93Do you remember Carlo Franconi?\'94 Raymond asked.\par
\'93Carlo Franconi the patient?\'94 Siegfried asked.\par
Raymond nodded.\par
\'93Of course,\'94 Siegfried said.\par
\'93Well, it started with him,\'94 Raymond said as he began the complicated story.\par
\par
\pard\qj\'93You think it is safe?\'94 Laurie asked. She was looking at a huge hollowed-out log canoe with a thatched canopy that was pulled halfway up the beach. On the back was a sizable, beat-up outboard motor. It was leaking fuel as evidenced by an opalescent scum that ringed the stern.\par
\pard\fi283\qj\'93Reportedly it goes all the way to Gabon twice a day,\'94 Jack said. \'93That\'92s farther than Cogo.\'94\par
\'93How much rent did you have to pay?\'94 Natalie asked. It had taken Jack a half hour of negotiations to get it.\par
\'93A bit more than I expected,\'94 Jack said. \'93Apparently, some people rented one a couple of days ago, and it hasn\'92t been seen since. That episode has driven the rental price up, I\'92m afraid.\'94\par
\'93More than a hundred or less?\'94 Warren asked. He, too, wasn\'92t impressed with the craft\'92s apparent seaworthiness. \'93Because if it was more than a C note you got took.\'94\par
\'93Well, let\'92s not quibble,\'94 Jack said. \'93In fact, let\'92s get the show on the road unless you guys want to back out.\'94\par
There was a moment of silence while the group eyed each other.\par
\'93I\'92m not a great swimmer,\'94 Warren admitted.\par
\'93I can assure you that we are not planning on going into the water,\'94 Jack said.\par
\'93All right,\'94 Warren said. \'93Let\'92s go.\'94\par
\'93You ladies concur?\'94 Jack asked.\par
Both Laurie and Natalie nodded without a lot of enthusiasm. At the moment, the noonday sun was enervating. Despite being on the shore of the estuary, there was not a breath of air.\par
With the women positioned in the stern to help lift the bow, Jack and Warren pushed the heavy pirogue off the shore and jumped in one after the other. Everyone helped paddle out about fifty feet. Jack attended to the motor, compressing the small hand pump on top of the red fuel tank. He\'92d had a boat as a child on a lake in the Midwest and had a lot of experience fussing with an outboard.\par
\'93This canoe is a lot more stable than it looks,\'94 Laurie said. Even with Jack moving around in the stern it was barely rocking.\par
\'93And no leaks,\'94 Natalie said. \'93That was my concern.\'94\par
Warren stayed silent. He had a white knuckle grip on the gunwale.\par
To Jack\'92s surprise, the engine started after only two pulls. A moment later, they were off, motoring almost due east. After the oppressive heat the breeze felt good.\par
The drive to Acalayong had been accomplished quicker than they\'92d anticipated, even though the road deteriorated in comparison to the road north of the Cogo turnoff. There was no traffic save for an occasional northward-bound van inconceivably packed with passengers. Even the luggage racks on the tops had two or three people holding on for dear life.\par
Acalayong had brought smiles to everyone\'92s face. It was indicated as a city on the map but turned out to consist of no more than a handful of tawdry concrete shops, bars, and a few hotels. There was a cement-block police post with several men in dirty uniforms sprawled in rattan chairs in the shade of the porch. They\'92d eyed Jack and the others with soporific disdain as the van had passed by.\par
Although they had found the town comically honky-tonk and litter strewn, they\'92d been able to get something to eat and drink as well as procure the boat. With some unease, they\'92d parked the van in sight of the police station, hoping it would be there on their return.\par
\'93How long did you estimate it would take us?\'94 Laurie shouted over the noise of the outboard. It was particularly loud because a portion of its cowling was missing.\par
\'93An hour,\'94 Jack yelled back. \'93But the boat owner told me it would be more like twenty minutes. It\'92s apparently just around the headland directly ahead.\'94\par
At that moment, they were crossing the two-mile-wide mouth of Rio Congue. The jungle-covered shorelines were hazy with mist. Thunderheads loomed above; two thunderstorms had hit while they\'92d been in the van.\par
\'93I hope we don\'92t get caught out here in the rain,\'94 Natalie said. But Mother Nature ignored her wish. Less than five minutes later, it was pouring so hard that some of the huge drops splashed river water into the boat. Jack slowed the engine and allowed the boat to guide itself, while he joined the others under the thatched canopy. To everyone\'92s pleasant surprise, they stayed completely dry.\par
As soon as they rounded the headland, they saw Cogo\'92s pier. Constructed of heavy pressure-treated timber, it was a far cry from the rickety docks at Acalayong. As they got closer, they could see there was a floating portion off the tip.\par
The first view of Cogo impressed everyone. In contrast with the dilapidated and haphazardly constructed buildings with flat, corrugated metal roofs endemic to Bata and all of Acalayong, Cogo was comprised of attractive, tiled, whitewashed structures reflecting a rich colonial ambiance. To the left and almost hidden by the jungle was a modern power station. Its presence was obvious only because of its improbably tall smokestack.\par
Jack cut the engine way back as the town approached so they could hear each other speak. Tied along the dock were several pirogues similar to the one they were in, though these others were piled high with fish netting.\par
\'93I\'92m glad to see other boats,\'94 Jack said. \'93I was afraid our canoe would stand out like a sore thumb.\'94\par
\'93Do you think that large, modern building is the hospital?\'94 Laurie said while pointing.\par
Jack followed her line of sight. \'93Yup, at least according to Arturo, and he should know. He was part of the initial building crew out here.\'94\par
\'93I suppose that\'92s our destination,\'94 Laurie said.\par
\'93I\'92d guess,\'94 Jack said. \'93At least initially. Arturo said the animal complex is a few miles away in the jungle. We might try to figure out a way to get out there.\'94\par
\'93The town is bigger than I expected,\'94 Warren said.\par
\'93I was told it was an abandoned Spanish colonial town,\'94 Jack explained. \'93Not all of it has been renovated, but from here it sure looks like it has.\'94\par
\'93What did the Spanish do here?\'94 Natalie asked. \'93It\'92s nothing but jungle.\'94\par
\'93They grew coffee and cocoa,\'94 Jack said. \'93At least that\'92s my understanding. Of course, I don\'92t have any idea where they grew it.\'94\par
\'93Uh-oh, I see a soldier,\'94 Laurie said.\par
\'93I see him, too,\'94 Jack said. His eyes had been searching along the waterfront as they came closer.\par
The soldier was dressed in the same jungle camouflage fatigues and red beret as the ones at the gate. He was aimlessly pacing a cobblestone square immediately at the base of the pier with an assault rifle slung over his shoulder.\par
\'93Does that mean we switch to plan C?\'94 Warren questioned teasingly.\par
\'93Not yet,\'94 Jack said. \'93Obviously, he\'92s where he is to interdict people coming off the pier. But look at that Chickee Hut built on the beach. If we got in there, we\'92d be home free.\'94\par
\'93We can\'92t just run the canoe up onto the beach,\'94 Laurie said. \'93He\'92ll see that as well.\'94\par
\'93Look how high that pier is,\'94 Jack said. \'93What if we were to slip underneath, beach the canoe there and then walk to the Chickee Hut? What do you think?\'94\par
\'93Sounds cool,\'94 Warren said. \'93But this boat is not going to fit under that pier, no way.\'94\par
Jack stood up and made his way over to one of the poles that supported the thatched roof. It disappeared into a hole in the gunwale. Grasping it with both hands, he pulled it up. \'93How convenient!\'94 he said. \'93This canoe is a convertible.\'94\par
A few minutes later, they had all the poles out, and the thatched roof had been converted to a pile of sticks and dried leaves. They distributed it along both sides under the benches.\par
\'93The owner\'92s not going to be happy about this,\'94 Natalie commented.\par
Jack angled the boat so that the pier shielded them as much as possible from the line of sight from the square. Jack cut the engine just at the moment they glided into the shade under the pier. Grasping the timbers they guided the boat toward shore, being careful to duck under crossbeams.\par
The boat scraped up the shady patch of shore and came to a stop.\par
\'93So far so good,\'94 Jack said. He encouraged the women and Warren to get out. Then, with Warren pulling and Jack paddling, they got the boat high on the beach.\par
Jack got out and pointed to a stone wall that ran perpendicular to the base of the pier before disappearing into the gently rising sand of the beach. \'93Let\'92s hug the wall. When we clear it, head for the Chickee Bar.\'94\par
A few minutes later, they were in the bar. The soldier had not paid them any heed. Either he didn\'92t see them or he didn\'92t care.\par
The bar was deserted except for a black man carefully cutting up lemons and limes. Jack motioned toward the stools and suggested a celebratory drink. Everyone was happy to comply. It had been hot in the canoe after the sun came out and especially after the canopy had come down.\par
The bartender came over immediately. His name tag identified him as Saturnino. In contradiction to his name, he was a jovial fellow. He was wearing a wild print shirt and a pillbox hat similar to the one Arturo had on when he picked them up at the airport the previous afternoon.\par
Following Natalie\'92s lead, everyone had Coke with a slice of lemon.\par
\'93Not much business today,\'94 Jack commented to Saturnino.\par
\'93Not until after five,\'94 the bartender said. \'93Then we are very busy.\'94\par
\'93We\'92re new here,\'94 Jack said. \'93What money do we use?\'94\par
\'93You can sign,\'94 Saturnino.\par
Jack looked at Laurie for permission. Laurie shook her head. \'93We\'92d rather pay,\'94 he said. \'93Are dollars okay?\'94\par
\'93What you like,\'94 Saturnino said. \'93Dollars or CFA. It makes no difference.\'94\par
\'93Where is the hospital?\'94 Jack asked.\par
Saturnino pointed over his shoulder. \'93Up the street until you get to the main square. It is the big building on the left.\'94\par
\'93What do they do there?\'94 Jack asked.\par
Saturnino looked at Jack as if he were crazy. \'93They take care of people.\'94\par
\'93Do people come from America just to go to the hospital?\'94 Jack asked.\par
Saturnino shrugged. \'93I don\'92t know about that,\'94 he said. He took the bills Jack had put on the bar and turned to the cash register.\par
\'93Nice try,\'94 Laurie whispered.\par
\'93It would have been too easy,\'94 Jack agreed.\par
Refreshed after their cold drinks, the group headed out into the sunlight. They passed within fifty feet of the soldier who continued to ignore them. After a short walk up a hot cobblestone street, they came to a small green surrounded by plantation-style homes.\par
\'93It reminds me of some of the Caribbean Islands,\'94 Laurie said.\par
Five minutes later, they entered the tree-lined town square. The group of soldiers lolling in front of the town hall diagonally across from where they were standing spoiled the otherwise idyllic tableau.\par
\'93Whoa,\'94 Jack said. \'93There\'92s a whole battalion.\'94\par
\'93I thought you said that if there were soldiers at the gate they wouldn\'92t have to have any in the town,\'94 Laurie said.\par
\'93I\'92ve been proved wrong,\'94 Jack acknowledged. \'93But there\'92s no need to go over and announce ourselves. This is the hospital lab complex in front of us.\'94\par
From the corner of the square, the building appeared to take up most of a Cogo city block. There was an entrance facing the square, but there was also one down the side street to their left. To avoid remaining in view of the lounging soldiers, they went to the side entrance.\par
\'93What are you going to say if we\'92re questioned?\'94 Laurie asked with some concern. \'93And walking into a hospital, you know it\'92s bound to happen.\'94\par
\'93I\'92m going to improvise,\'94 Jack said. He yanked the door open and ushered his friends in with an exaggerated bow.\par
Laurie glanced at Natalie and Warren and rolled her eyes. At least Jack could still be charming even when he was most exasperating.\par
After entering the building, everyone shivered with delight. Never had air conditioning felt quite so good. The room they found themselves in appeared to be a lounge, complete with wall-to-wall carpeting, club chairs, and couches. A large bookcase lined one wall. Some of the shelving was on an angle to display an impressive collection of periodicals from \i Time\i0  to \i National Geographic\i0 . There were about a half dozen people sitting in the room, all of them reading.\par
In the back wall at desk height was an opening fronted with sliding glass panels. Behind the glass a black woman in a blue uniform dress was sitting at a desk. To the right of the opening was a hall with several elevators.\par
\'93Could all these people be patients?\'94 Laurie asked.\par
\'93Good question,\'94 Jack said. \'93Somehow, I don\'92t think so. They all look too healthy and too comfortable. Let\'92s talk to the secretary or whoever she is.\'94\par
Warren and Natalie were intimidated by the hospital environment. They silently followed after Jack and Laurie.\par
Jack rapped softly on the glass. The woman looked up from her work and slid the glass open.\par
\'93Sorry,\'94 she said. \'93I didn\'92t see you arrive. Are you checking in?\'94\par
\'93No,\'94 Jack said. \'93All my bodily functions are working fine at the moment.\'94\par
\'93Excuse me?\'94 the woman questioned.\par
\'93We\'92re here to see the hospital, not use its services,\'94 Jack said. \'93We\'92re doctors.\'94\par
\'93This isn\'92t the hospital,\'94 the woman said. \'93This is the Inn. You can either go out and come in the front of the building or follow the hall to your right. The hospital is beyond the double doors.\'94\par
\'93Thank you,\'94 Jack said.\par
\'93My pleasure,\'94 the woman said. She leaned forward and watched as Jack and the others disappeared around the corner. Perplexed, the woman sat back and picked up her phone.\par
Jack led the others through the double doors. Immediately, the surroundings looked more familiar. The floors were vinyl and the walls were painted a soothing hospital green. A faint antiseptic smell was detectable.\par
\'93This is more like it,\'94 Jack said.\par
They entered a room whose windows fronted on the square. Between the windows were a large pair of doors leading to the outside. There were a few couches and chairs on area rugs forming distinct conversational groupings, but it was nothing like the lounge they\'92d initially entered. But like the lounge, this space had a glass-fronted information cubbyhole.\par
Jack again knocked on the glass. Another woman slid open the glass partition. She was equally as cordial.\par
\'93We have a question,\'94 Jack said. \'93We\'92re doctors, and we\'92d like to know if there are currently any transplant patients in the hospital?\'94\par
\'93Yes, of course, there\'92s one,\'94 the woman said with a confused look on her face. \'93Horace Winchester. He\'92s in 302 and ready to be discharged.\'94\par
\'93How convenient,\'94 Jack said. \'93What organ was transplanted?\'94\par
\'93His liver,\'94 the woman said. \'93Are you all from the Pittsburgh group?\'94\par
\'93No, we\'92re part of the New York group,\'94 Jack said.\par
\'93I see,\'94 the woman said, although her expression suggested she didn\'92t see at all.\par
\'93Thank you,\'94 Jack said to the woman as he herded the group toward the elevators that could be seen to the right.\par
\'93Luck is finally going our way,\'94 Jack said excitedly. \'93This is going to make it easy. Maybe all we have to do is get a look at the chart.\'94\par
\'93As if that\'92s going to be easy,\'94 Laurie commented.\par
\'93True,\'94 Jack said after a moment\'92s thought. \'93So maybe we should just drop in on Horace and get the lowdown from the horse\'92s mouth.\'94\par
\'93Hey, man,\'94 Warren said, pulling Jack to a stop. \'93Maybe Natalie and I should wait down here. We\'92re not used to being in a hospital, you know what I\'92m saying?\'94\par
\'93I suppose,\'94 Jack said reluctantly. \'93But I kind of think its important for us to stick together in case we have to mosey down to the canoe sooner than we\'92d like. You know what I\'92m saying?\'94\par
Warren nodded and Jack pressed the elevator call button.\par
\par
\pard\qj Cameron McIvers was accustomed to false alarms. After all, most of the time he or the Office of Security was called, it was a false alarm. Accordingly, as he entered the front door of the Inn, he was not concerned. But it was his job or one of his deputies\'92 to check out all potential problems.\par
\pard\fi283\qj As he crossed to the information desk, Cameron noted that the lounge was as subdued as usual. The calm scene bolstered his suspicions that this call would be like all the others.\par
Cameron tapped on the glass, and it was slid open.\par
\'93Miss Williams,\'94 Cameron said, while touching the brim of his hat in a form of salute. Cameron and the rest of the security force wore khaki uniforms with an Aussie hat when on duty. There was also a leather belt with shoulder strap. A holstered Beretta was attached to the belt on the right side and a hand-held two-way radio on the left side.\par
\'93They went that way,\'94 Corrina Williams said excitedly. She lifted herself out of her chair to point around the corner.\par
\'93Calm down,\'94 Cameron said gently. \'93Who exactly are you talking about?\'94\par
\'93They didn\'92t give any names,\'94 Corrina said. \'93There were four of them. Only one spoke. He said he was a doctor.\'94\par
\'93Hmmm,\'94 Cameron voiced. \'93And you\'92ve never seen them before?\'94\par
\'93Never,\'94 Corrina said anxiously. \'93They took me by surprise. I thought maybe they were to stay at the Inn since we had new arrivals yesterday. But they said they had come to see the hospital. When I told them how to get there, they left straightaway.\'94\par
\'93Were they black or white?\'94 Cameron asked. Maybe this wouldn\'92t be a typical false alarm after all.\par
\'93Half and half,\'94 Corrina said. \'93Two blacks, two whites. But I could tell from the way they were dressed they were all American.\'94\par
\'93I see,\'94 Cameron said, while he stroked his beard and pondered the unlikely possibility of any of the Zone\'92s American workers coming into the Inn to say they wanted to see the hospital.\par
\'93The one who was talking also said something strange about his bodily functions working fine,\'94 Corrina said. \'93I didn\'92t know how to respond.\'94\par
\'93Hmmm,\'94 Cameron repeated. \'93Could I use your phone?\'94\par
\'93Of course,\'94 Corrina said. She pulled the phone over from the side of her desk and faced it out toward Cameron.\par
Cameron punched the manager\'92s direct line. Siegfried answered immediately.\par
\'93I\'92m here at the Inn,\'94 Cameron explained. \'93I thought you should be apprised of a curious story. Four strange doctors presented themselves here to Miss Williams with the wish to see the hospital.\'94\par
Siegfried\'92s response was an angry tirade that forced Cameron to hold the receiver away from his ear. Even Corrina cringed.\par
Cameron handed the phone back to the receptionist. He\'92d not heard every word of Siegfried\'92s invective but the meaning was clear. Cameron was to get reinforcements over there immediately and detain the alien doctors.\par
Cameron unsnapped the straps over both his Beretta and the radio simultaneously. He pulled the radio free and made an emergency call to base while he started for the hospital.\par
\par
\pard\qj Room 302 turned out to be in the front of the building with a fine view out over the square looking east. Jack and the others had found the room without difficulty. No one had challenged them. In fact, they hadn\'92t seen a person as they\'92d made their way from the elevator to the room\'92s open door.\par
\pard\fi283\qj Jack had knocked but it was obvious the room was momentarily empty although there\'92d been plenty of evidence the room was occupied. A television with a built-in VCR was on, and it was showing an old Paul Newman movie. The hospital bed was moderately disheveled. An open, half-packed suitcase was poised on a luggage stand.\par
The mystery was solved when Laurie noticed the sounds of a shower behind the closed bathroom door.\par
When the water stopped running, Jack had knocked, but it wasn\'92t until almost ten minutes later that Horace Winchester appeared.\par
The patient was in his mid-fifties and corpulent. But he looked happy and healthy. He cinched up the tie on his bathrobe and padded over to the club chair by the bed. He sat down with a satisfied sigh.\par
\'93What\'92s the occasion?\'94 he asked, smiling at his guests. \'93This is more company than I\'92ve had the whole time I\'92ve been here.\'94\par
\'93How are you feeling?\'94 Jack asked. He grabbed a straight-back chair and sat down directly in front of Horace. Warren and Natalie lurked just outside the door. They felt reluctant to enter the room. Laurie went to the window. After seeing the group of soldiers, she\'92d become progressively anxious. She was eager to make the visit short and get back to the boat.\par
\'93I\'92m feeling just great,\'94 Horace said. \'93It\'92s a miracle. I came here at death\'92s door and as yellow as a canary. Look at me now! I\'92m ready for thirty-six holes of golf at one of my resorts. Hey, any of you people are invited to any of my places for as long as you want to stay, and it will all be on the house. Do you like to ski?\'94\par
\'93I do,\'94 Jack said. \'93But I\'92d rather talk about your case. I understand you had a liver transplant here. I\'92d like to ask where the liver came from?\'94\par
A half smile puckered Horace\'92s face as he regarded Jack out of the corner of his eye. \'93Is this some kind of test?\'94 he asked. \'93Because if it is, it\'92s not necessary. I\'92m not going to be telling anyone. I couldn\'92t be more grateful. In fact, as soon as I can, I\'92m going to have another double made.\'94\par
\'93Exactly what do you mean by a \'91double\'92?\'94 Jack asked.\par
\'93Are you people part of the Pittsburgh team?\'94 Horace asked. He looked over at Laurie.\par
\'93No, we\'92re part of the New York team,\'94 Jack said. \'93And we\'92re fascinated by your case. We\'92re glad you are doing so well, and we\'92re here to learn.\'94 Jack smiled and spread his hands palm up. \'93We\'92re all ears. Why don\'92t you start from the beginning?\'94\par
\'93You mean how I got sick?\'94 Horace asked. He was plainly confused.\par
\'93No, how you arranged to have your transplant here in Africa,\'94 Jack said. \'93And I\'92d like to know what you mean by a double. Did you by any chance get a liver taken from some kind of ape?\'94\par
Horace gave a little nervous laugh and shook his head. \'93What\'92s going on here?\'94 he questioned. He glanced again at Laurie and then at Natalie and Warren who were still standing in the doorway.\par
\'93Uh-oh!\'94 Laurie suddenly voiced. She was staring out the window. \'93There\'92s a bunch of soldiers running this way across the square.\'94\par
Warren quickly crossed the room and looked out. \'93Shit, man. They mean business!\'94\par
Jack stood up, reached out, and grasped Horace by the shoulders. He leaned his face close to the patient\'92s. \'93You are really going to disappoint me if you don\'92t answer my questions, and I do the strangest things when I\'92m disappointed. What kind of animal was it, a chimpanzee?\'94\par
\'93They\'92re coming to the hospital,\'94 Warren yelled. \'93And they all have AK-47\'92s.\'94\par
\'93Come on!\'94 Jack urged Horace while giving the man a little shake. \'93Talk to me. Was it a chimpanzee?\'94 Jack tightened his hold on the man.\par
\'93It was a bonobo,\'94 Horace squeaked. He was terrified.\par
\'93Is that a type of ape?\'94 Jack demanded.\par
\'93Yes,\'94 Horace managed.\par
\'93Come on, man!\'94 Warren encouraged. He was back at the door. \'93We got to get our asses out of here.\'94\par
\'93And what did you mean by a double?\'94 Jack asked.\par
Laurie grabbed Jack\'92s arm. \'93There\'92s no time. Those soldiers will be up here in a minute.\'94\par
Reluctantly, Jack let go of Horace and allowed himself to be dragged to the door. \'93Damn, I was so close,\'94 he complained.\par
Warren was waving frantically for them to follow him and Natalie down the central corridor toward the back of the building, when the elevator door opened. Out stepped Cameron with his Beretta clutched in his hand.\par
\'93Everyone halt!\'94 Cameron shouted the moment he saw the strangers. He grabbed his gun in both hands and trained it on Warren and Natalie. Then he swept it around to aim at Jack and Laurie. For Cameron, the problem was that his adversaries were on either side of him. When he was looking at one group, he couldn\'92t see the other.\par
\'93Hands on top of your heads,\'94 Cameron commanded. He motioned with the barrel of his gun.\par
Everyone complied, although every time Cameron swung the gun toward Jack and Laurie, Warren approached another step toward him.\par
\'93No one is going to get hurt,\'94 Cameron said as he brought the gun back toward Warren.\par
Warren had gotten within range of a kick, and with lightning speed his foot lashed out and connected with Cameron\'92s hands. The gun bounced off the ceiling.\par
Before Cameron could react to his gun\'92s sudden disappearance, Warren closed in on him and hit him twice, once in the lower abdomen and then on the tip of the nose. Cameron collapsed backwards in a heap on the floor.\par
\'93I\'92m glad you\'92re on my team for this run,\'94 Jack said.\par
\'93We got to get ourselves back to that boat!\'94 Warren blurted without humor.\par
\'93I\'92m open to suggestions,\'94 Jack said.\par
Cameron moaned and pushed himself over onto his stomach.\par
Warren looked both ways down the hall. A few minutes earlier, he\'92d thought of running down the main corridor toward the rear, but that was no longer a reasonable alternative. Halfway down the corridor he could see some nurses gathering and pointing in his direction.\par
Across from the elevators at eye-level was a sign in the form of an arrow that pointed down the hall beyond Horace\'92s room. It said: \scaps or\scaps0 .\par
Knowing they had little time to debate, Warren motioned in the direction of the arrow. \'93That way!\'94 he barked.\par
\'93The operating room?\'94 Jack questioned. \'93Why?\'94\par
\'93Because they won\'92t expect it,\'94 Warren said. He grabbed a stunned Natalie by the hand and propelled her into a jog.\par
Jack and Laurie followed. They passed Horace\'92s room but the chubby man had locked himself in his bathroom.\par
The operating suite was set off from the rest of the hospital by the usual swinging doors. Warren hit them and went through with a straight arm like a football running back. Jack and Laurie were right behind.\par
There were no cases under way nor were there any patients in the recovery room. There weren\'92t even any lights on except for those in a supply room halfway down the hall. The supply room\'92s door was ajar, emitting a faint glow.\par
Hearing the repetitive thumps on the operating room doors, a woman appeared from the supply room. She was dressed in a scrub suit with a disposable cap. She caught her breath as she saw the four figures hurtling in her direction.\par
\'93Hey, you can\'92t come in here in street clothes,\'94 she yelled as soon as she\'92d recovered from her initial shock. But Warren and the others had already passed. Perplexed, she watched the intruders run all the way down the rest of the corridor to disappear through the doors leading to the lab.\par
Turning back into the supply room, she went for the wall phone.\par
Warren skidded to a stop where the corridor formed a \'93T.\'94 He looked in either direction. To the left at the far end was a red wall light indicating a fire alarm. Above it was an exit sign.\par
\'93Hold up!\'94 Jack said, as Warren was preparing to dash down to what he imagined would be a stairwell.\par
\'93What\'92s the matter, man?\'94 Warren questioned anxiously.\par
\'93This looks like a laboratory,\'94 Jack said. He stepped over to a glazed door and looked inside. He was immediately impressed. Although they were in the middle of Africa, it was the most modern lab he\'92d ever seen. Every piece of equipment looked brand new.\par
\'93Come on!\'94 Laurie snapped. \'93There\'92s no time for curiosity. We\'92ve got to get out of here.\'94\par
\'93It\'92s true, man,\'94 Warren said. \'93Especially after hitting that security type back there, we\'92ve got to make tracks.\'94\par
\'93You guys go,\'94 Jack said distractedly. \'93I\'92ll meet you at the boat.\'94\par
Warren, Laurie, and Natalie exchanged anxious glances.\par
Jack tried the door. It was unlocked. He opened it and walked inside.\par
\'93Oh, for crissake,\'94 Laurie complained. Jack could be so frustrating. It was one thing for him to have little concern for his own safety, but it was quite another thing for him to compromise others.\par
\'93This place is going to be crawling with security dudes and soldiers in nothing flat,\'94 Warren said.\par
\'93I know,\'94 Laurie said. \'93You guys go. I\'92ll get him to come as soon as I can.\'94\par
\'93I can\'92t leave you,\'94 Warren said.\par
\'93Think of Natalie,\'94 Laurie said.\par
\'93Nonsense,\'94 Natalie said. \'93I\'92m no frail female. We\'92re in this together.\'94\par
\'93You ladies go in there and talk some sense into that man,\'94 Warren said. \'93I\'92m going to run down the hall and pull the fire alarm.\'94\par
\'93What on earth for?\'94 Laurie asked.\par
\'93It\'92s an old trick I learned as a teenager,\'94 Warren said. \'93Whenever there\'92s trouble cause as much chaos as you can. It gives you a chance to slip away.\'94\par
\'93I\'92ll take your word for it,\'94 Laurie said. She motioned for Natalie to follow and entered the lab.\par
They found Jack already engaged in pleasant conversation with a laboratory technician wearing a long white coat. She was a freckle-faced redhead with an amiable smile. Jack already had her laughing.\par
\'93Excuse me!\'94 Laurie said, struggling to keep her voice down. \'93Jack, we have to go.\'94\par
\'93Laurie, meet Rolanda Phieffer,\'94 Jack said. \'93She\'92s originally from Heidelberg, Germany.\'94\par
\'93Jack!\'94 Laurie intoned through clenched teeth.\par
\'93Rolanda\'92s been telling me something very interesting,\'94 Jack said. \'93She and her colleagues here are working on the genes for minor histocompatibility antigens. They\'92re moving them from a specific chromosome in one cell and sticking them into the same location on the same chromosome in another cell.\'94\par
Natalie, who\'92d walked over to a large picture window overlooking the square, hastily turned back into the room. \'93It\'92s getting worse. An entire car load of those Arabs in black suits are arriving.\'94\par
At that moment, the fire alarm in the building went off. It featured alternating sequences of three ear-splitting shrieks of a horn followed by a disembodied voice: \'93Fire in the laboratory! Please proceed immediately to stairwells for evacuation! Do not use the elevators!\'94\par
\'93Oh, my word!\'94 Rolanda said. She looked around quickly to see what she should take with her.\par
Laurie grabbed Jack by both arms and shook him. \'93Jack, be reasonable! We have to get out of here.\'94\par
\'93I\'92ve figured it out,\'94 Jack said with a wry smile.\par
\'93I don\'92t give a good goddamn,\'94 Laurie spat. \'93Come on!\'94\par
They rushed out into the hall. Other people were appearing as well. Everyone seemed confused as they looked up and down the hall. Some were sniffing. There was animated conversation. Many people were carrying their lap-top computers.\par
Without rushing they moved en masse to the stairwell. Jack, Laurie, and Natalie met up with Warren who was holding the door. He\'92d also managed to find white coats which he distributed to the others. They all pulled them on over their clothes. Unfortunately, they were the only ones wearing shorts.\par
\'93They have created some kind of chimera with these apes called bonobos,\'94 Jack said excitedly. \'93That\'92s the explanation. No wonder the DNA tests were so screwy.\'94\par
\'93What\'92s he carrying on about now?\'94 Warren asked with irritation.\par
\'93Don\'92t ask,\'94 Laurie said. \'93It will only encourage him.\'94\par
\'93Whose idea was it to pull the fire alarm?\'94 Jack asked. \'93It was brilliant.\'94\par
\'93Warren\'92s,\'94 Laurie said. \'93At least one of us is thinking.\'94\par
The stairwell opened up into a parking lot on the north side. People were milling about, looking back at the building, and talking in small groups. It was deathly hot since the sun was out and the parking lot was blacktop. A wailing fire siren could be heard coming from the northeast.\par
\'93What should we do?\'94 Laurie asked. \'93I\'92m relieved we\'92ve gotten as far as we have. I didn\'92t think it was going to be so easy to get out of the building.\'94\par
\'93Let\'92s walk over to the street and turn left,\'94 Jack said while pointing. \'93We can circle around the area to the west and get back to the waterfront.\'94\par
\'93Where are all those soldiers?\'94 Laurie asked.\par
\'93And the Arabs?\'94 Natalie added.\par
\'93I\'92d guess they\'92re looking for us in the hospital,\'94 Jack said.\par
\'93Let\'92s go before all these lab people start going back into the building,\'94 Warren said.\par
They tried not to rush to avoid attracting any attention. As they neared the street they all glanced behind them for fear they were being watched, but no one was even looking in their direction. Everybody was captivated by the fire crew who\'92d arrived.\par
\'93So far so good,\'94 Jack said.\par
Warren was the first to reach the street. As he got a look to the west around the corner, he stopped abruptly and put his arms out to block the others. He backed up a step.\par
\'93We\'92re not going that way,\'94 he said. \'93They\'92ve got a roadblock at the end of the street.\'94\par
\'93Uh-oh,\'94 Laurie said. \'93Maybe they\'92ve sealed off the area.\'94\par
\'93You remember that power station we saw?\'94 Jack said.\par
Everyone nodded.\par
\'93That power has to get over here to the hospital,\'94 Jack said. \'93I\'92d bet there\'92s a tunnel.\'94\par
\'93Maybe,\'94 Warren said. \'93But the trouble is we don\'92t know how to find it. Besides, I\'92m not thrilled about going back inside. Not with all those kids with AK-47\'92s.\'94\par
\'93Then let\'92s try walking across the square,\'94 Jack said.\par
\'93Toward where we saw the soldiers?\'94 Laurie questioned with dismay.\par
\'93Hey, if they\'92re over here at the hospital, there should be no problem,\'94 Jack said.\par
\'93That\'92s a point,\'94 Natalie agreed.\par
\'93Of course, we could always give ourselves up and say we\'92re sorry,\'94 Jack said. \'93I mean, what can they do to us besides kick us the hell out. I think I\'92ve gotten what I came for, so it wouldn\'92t bother me in the slightest.\'94\par
\'93You\'92re joking,\'94 Laurie said. \'93They\'92re not going to accept a mere apology. Warren struck that man; we\'92ve done more than trespass.\'94\par
\'93I\'92m joking to an extent,\'94 Jack agreed. \'93But the man was sticking a gun in our face. That\'92s at least an explanation. Besides, we can leave a bunch of our French francs behind. Supposedly, that solves everything in this country.\'94\par
\'93It didn\'92t get us past the gate,\'94 Laurie reminded him.\par
\'93All right, everything but get us in here,\'94 Jack said. \'93But I\'92ll be very surprised if it doesn\'92t get us out.\'94\par
\'93We\'92ve got to do something,\'94 Warren said. \'93The fire crew are already waving for the people to come back in the building. We\'92re going to be standing out here in this god-awful heat by ourselves.\'94\par
\'93So they are,\'94 Jack said, squinting against the sunlight. He found his sunglasses and put them on. \'93Let\'92s try crossing the square before the soldiers return.\'94\par
Once again, they tried to walk calmly as if they were strolling. They got almost to the grass, when they became aware of a commotion at the door into the building. They all turned to see a number of the black-suited Arabs push their way pass the lab techs who were entering.\par
The Arabs rushed out into the sundrenched parking lot with their neckties flapping and their eyes squinting. Each brandished an automatic pistol in his hand. Behind the Arabs came several soldiers. Out of breath, they stood in the hot sun, panting while scanning the neighborhood.\par
Warren froze, and the rest of the group did the same.\par
\'93I don\'92t like this,\'94 Warren said. \'93The six of them have enough fire power to rob the Chase Manhattan Bank.\'94\par
\'93They kind of remind me of the Keystone Cops,\'94 Jack said.\par
\'93I don\'92t find anything about this comical at all,\'94 Laurie said.\par
\'93Strangely enough, I think we\'92re going to have to walk back inside,\'94 Warren said. \'93With these lab coats on they\'92re going to wonder why we\'92re standing out here.\'94\par
Before anyone could respond to Warren\'92s suggestion Cameron came out the door accompanied by two other men. One was dressed like Cameron: clearly a member of the security force. The other was shorter with a limp right arm. He, too, was dressed in khaki but without any of the martial embellishments the other two sported.\par
\'93Uh-oh,\'94 Jack said. \'93I have a feeling we\'92ll be forced to use the apology approach after all.\'94\par
Cameron was holding a blood-spotted handkerchief to his nose, but it didn\'92t obstruct his vision. He spotted the group immediately and pointed. \'93That\'92s them!\'94 he yelled.\par
The Moroccans and the soldiers responded immediately by surrounding the trespassers. Every gun was pointed at the group, who raised their hands without being told.\par
\'93I wonder if they\'92ll be impressed with my medical examiner badge?\'94 Jack quipped.\par
\'93Don\'92t do anything foolish!\'94 Laurie warned.\par
Cameron and his companions walked over immediately. Silently, the ring around the Americans opened to allow them through. Siegfried stepped to the forefront.\par
\'93We\'92d like to apologize for any inconvenience,\'94 Jack began.\par
\'93Shut up!\'94 Siegfried snapped. He walked around the group to eye them from all directions. When he got back to where he started, he asked Cameron if these were the people he\'92d encountered in the hospital.\par
\'93No doubt in my mind,\'94 Cameron said while glaring directly into Warren\'92s face. \'93I hope you will indulge me, sir.\'94\par
\'93Of course,\'94 Siegfried said with a slight wave of dismissal.\par
Without warning, Cameron punched Warren in the side of the face with a roundhouse blow. The sound was like a telephone directory falling to the floor. A plaintive whine escaped from Cameron\'92s lips as he grabbed his hand and gritted his teeth. Warren did not move a muscle. He may not have blinked.\par
Cameron swore under his breath and stepped away.\par
\'93Search them,\'94 Siegfried commanded.\par
\'93We are sorry if we\'97\'94 Jack began but Siegfried didn\'92t let him finish. He slapped him with an open fist hard enough to turn Jack\'92s head in the direction of the blow and raise a red welt on his cheek.\par
Cameron\'92s deputy quickly relieved Jack and the others of their passports, wallets, money, and car keys. He gave them to Siegfried, who slowly went through them. After he looked at Jack\'92s passport, he raised his eyes and glowered at him.\par
\'93I\'92ve been told you are a troublemaker,\'94 Siegfried said with disdain.\par
\'93I\'92d rather think of myself as a tenacious competitor,\'94 Jack said.\par
\'93Ah, arrogant as well,\'94 Siegfried snarled. \'93I hope your tenacity comes in handy once you are turned over to the Equatoguinean military.\'94\par
\'93Perhaps we can call the American Embassy and resolve this,\'94 Jack said. \'93We are, after all, government employees.\'94\par
Siegfried smiled, which actually only increased his scar-induced sneer. \'93American Embassy?\'94 he questioned with uncamouflaged scorn. \'93In Equatorial Guinea! What a joke! Unfortunately for you, it\'92s out on the island of Bioko.\'94 He turned to Cameron. \'93Put them in the jail but separate the men and the women!\'94\par
Cameron snapped his fingers for his deputy. He wanted the four handcuffed first. While this was in progress he and Siegfried drew off to the side.\par
\'93Are you really going to hand them over to the Equatoguineans?\'94 Cameron asked.\par
\'93Absolutely,\'94 Siegfried said. \'93Raymond told me all about Stapleton. They have to disappear.\'94\par
\'93When?\'94 Cameron asked.\par
\'93As soon as Taylor Cabot leaves,\'94 Siegfried said. \'93I want this whole episode kept quiet.\'94\par
\'93I understand,\'94 Cameron said. He touched the brim of his hat and then went back to supervise the transfer of the prisoners to the jail in the basement of the town hall.\par
\par
\par
\pard\qj\fs32 CHAPTER 22\par
\pard\fi283\qj\fs24\par
\pard\qr MARCH 9, 1997\par
4:15 P.M.\par
ISLA FRANCESCA\par
\pard\fi283\qj\par
\pard\qj\'93SOMETHING very strange is going on,\'94 Kevin said.\par
\pard\fi283\qj\'93But what?\'94 Melanie said. \'93Should we get our hopes up?\'94\par
\'93Where could all the other animals be?\'94 Candace questioned.\par
\'93I don\'92t know whether to be encouraged or concerned,\'94 Kevin said. \'93What if they\'92re having Armageddon with the other group, and the fighting spreads to here?\'94\par
\'93God almighty,\'94 Melanie commented. \'93I never thought of that.\'94\par
Kevin and the women had been virtual prisoners for over two days. They had not been allowed to leave the small cave the entire time of their confinement, and it now smelled as bad or worse than the outer cave. To relieve themselves, they\'92d been forced to go back into the tunnel which reeked like a mini-cesspool.\par
They themselves didn\'92t smell much better. They were filthy from wearing the same clothes and sleeping on the rock and dirt floor. Their hair was hopelessly matted. Kevin\'92s face was covered with a two-day stubble. They were all weak from lack of exercise and food although each had eaten some of what was brought to them.\par
Around ten o\'92clock that morning, there\'92d been a sense that something abnormal was happening. The animals had become agitated. Some had rushed out only to return moments later, making loud cries. Early on, bonobo number one had gone out but had yet to return. That in itself was abnormal.\par
\'93Wait a second,\'94 Kevin said suddenly. He put up his hands to keep the women from making any noise. He strained to hear by turning his head slowly from side to side.\par
\'93What is it?\'94 Melanie asked urgently.\par
\'93I thought I heard a voice,\'94 Kevin said.\par
\'93A human voice?\'94 Candace questioned.\par
Kevin nodded.\par
\'93Wait, I just heard it!\'94 Melanie said with excitement.\par
\'93I did, too,\'94 Candace said. \'93I\'92m sure it was a human voice. It sounded like someone yelling \'91okay.\'92\~\'94\par
\'93Arthur heard it, too,\'94 Kevin said. They\'92d named the bonobo who most often stood guard at the lip of the small cave Arthur for no particular reason other than to have a way to refer to him. Over the long hours, they\'92d had what could have been called a dialogue. They\'92d even been able to guess at some of the meanings of the bonobo words and gestures.\par
The ones they were the most sure of included \'93arak,\'94 which meant \'93away\'94 especially when accompanied by the spreading of fingers and a sweeping arm motion, the same gesture Candace had seen in the operating room. There was also \'93hana\'94 for \'93quiet\'94 and \'93zit\'94 for \'93go.\'94 They were very sure of \'93food\'94 and \'93water,\'94 which were \'93bumi\'94 and \'93carak\'94 respectively. A word they weren\'92t too sure of was \'93sta\'94 accompanied by holding up one\'92s hands with palms out. They thought it might be the pronoun \'93you.\'94\par
Arthur stood up and loudly vocalized to the few bonobos remaining in the cave. They listened and then immediately disappeared out the front.\par
The next thing Kevin and the others heard were several reports from a rifle: not an ordinary gun but rather an air gun. A few minutes later, two figures in animal-center coveralls appeared silhouetted against the hazy, late-afternoon sky at the cave\'92s entrance. One was carrying a gun, the other a strong, battery-powered lamp.\par
\'93Help!\'94 Melanie shouted. She averted her eyes from the strong beam of light but waved her hands frantically lest the men not see her.\par
There was a loud thump that echoed around the inside of the cave. Simultaneously, Arthur let out a whimper. With a confused expression on his flat face he looked down at a red-tailed dart that protruded from his chest. His hand came up to grasp it, but before he could, he began to wobble. As if in slow motion, he sagged to the floor and rolled over onto his side.\par
Kevin, Melanie, and Candace emerged from their doorless cell and tried to stand upright. It took a moment for them to stretch. By the time they did the men were kneeling at the side of the bonobo to give the animal an additional dose of tranquilizer.\par
\'93My god, are we glad to see you,\'94 Melanie said. She had to steady herself with a hand against the rock. For a moment, the cave had begun to spin.\par
The men stood up and shined the bright light on the women and then on Kevin. The former captives all had to shield their eyes.\par
\'93You people are a mess,\'94 the man with the light said.\par
\'93I\'92m Kevin Marshall and this is Melanie Becket and Candace Brickmann.\'94\par
\'93I know who you are,\'94 the man said flatly. \'93Let\'92s get out of this shithole.\'94\par
Kevin and the women were happy to comply on rubbery legs. The two men followed. Once out of the cave, the three friends had to squint in the bright, hazy sunlight. Below the face of the cliff were a half dozen more animal handlers. They were busy rolling up tranquilized bonobos in reed mats and lifting them onto a trailer where they were carefully positioned side by side.\par
\'93There\'92s one more up here in this cave,\'94 the man with the flashlight yelled down to the others.\par
\'93I know you two,\'94 Melanie said once she got a good view of the men who\'92d come into the cave. \'93You\'92re Dave Turner and Daryl Christian.\'94\par
The men ignored Melanie. Dave, the taller of the two, pulled a two-way radio out of a holder at his waist. Daryl started climbing down the giant steps.\par
\'93Turner to base,\'94 Dave said into the instrument.\par
\'93I hear you loud and clear,\'94 Bertram said on the other end.\par
\'93We got the last of the bonobos and we\'92re loading up,\'94 Dave said.\par
\'93Excellent work,\'94 Bertram said.\par
\'93We found Kevin Marshall and the two women in a cave,\'94 Dave said.\par
\'93In what state?\'94 Bertram asked.\par
\'93Filthy but otherwise apparently healthy,\'94 Dave said.\par
\'93Give me that thing!\'94 Melanie said, reaching for Dave\'92s radio. Suddenly, she didn\'92t like being talked about disparagingly by an underling.\par
Dave fended her off. \'93What do you want me to do with them?\'94\par
Melanie put her hands on her hips. She was incensed. \'93What do you mean \'91what to do with them\'92?\'94\par
\'93Bring them to the animal center,\'94 Bertram said. \'93I\'92ll inform Siegfried Spallek. I\'92m sure he\'92ll want to talk with them.\'94\par
\'93Ten-four,\'94 Dave said. He snapped off the radio.\par
\'93What\'92s the meaning of this kind of treatment?\'94 Melanie demanded. \'93We\'92ve been prisoners out here for more than two days.\'94\par
Dave shrugged. \'93We just follow orders, ma\'92am. It seems as if you two have riled up the front office big time.\'94\par
\'93What on earth is happening to the bonobos?\'94 Kevin asked. When he\'92d first seen what the men were doing, he\'92d assumed it had all been for the purpose of their rescue. But the more he thought about it he couldn\'92t understand why the animals were being loaded onto a trailer.\par
\'93The bonobos\'92 good life on the island is a thing of the past,\'94 Dave said. \'93They\'92ve been warring out here and killing each other. We\'92ve found four corpses as evidence, all bashed with stone wedges. So we\'92re caging them at the staging area in preparation for taking them all to the animal center. It\'92ll be six-foot concrete cells from now on as far as I know.\'94\par
Kevin\'92s mouth slowly fell open. In spite of his hunger, exhaustion, and aches and pains, he felt a profound sadness for these unfortunate creatures who\'92d not asked to be created or born. Their lives had suddenly and arbitrarily been doomed to monotonous incarceration. Their human potential was not to be realized, and their striking accomplishments thus far would be lost.\par
Daryl and three other men were now on their way up with a litter.\par
Kevin turned to look back inside the cave. In the far shadows, he could see Arthur\'92s profile near the lip of the chamber where Kevin and the women had been kept. A tear formed in the corner of Kevin\'92s eye as he imagined how Arthur was going to feel when he awoke to find himself encased in steel.\par
\'93All right, you three,\'94 Dave said. \'93Let\'92s start back. Are you strong enough to walk or you want to ride on the trailer?\'94\par
\'93How do you move the trailer?\'94 Kevin asked.\par
\'93We\'92ve got an all-terrain vehicle on the island,\'94 Dave said.\par
\'93I\'92ll walk, thank you,\'94 Melanie said icily.\par
Kevin and Candace nodded in agreement.\par
\'93We\'92re awfully hungry, though,\'94 Kevin said. \'93The animals have only been offering us insects, worms, and marsh grass.\'94\par
\'93We\'92ve got some candy bars and soft drinks in a locker on the front of the trailer,\'94 Dave said.\par
\'93That should be just fine,\'94 Kevin said.\par
The climb down the rock face was the hardest part of the trip. Once on the flat, the walking was easy, especially since the animal handlers had cleared the trail for the all-terrain vehicle.\par
Kevin was impressed with how much the workers had accomplished in so short a time. As he emerged into the marshy field south of Lago Hippo, he wondered if the canoe was still hidden in the reeds. He guessed it probably was. There was no reason it would have been found.\par
Candace was elated when she saw the earth-covered timber bridge and said as much. She\'92d been worrying how they were going to get across the Rio Diviso.\par
\'93You people have been busy,\'94 Kevin commented.\par
\'93We had no choice,\'94 Dave said. \'93We had to round up these animals in the quickest time possible.\'94\par
Kevin, Melanie, and Candace began to get seriously fatigued on the last mile segment from the Rio Diviso bridge to the staging area. It was especially apparent when they had to step off the trail for the all-terrain vehicle to pass on its way back for the last trailer-load of bonobos. Stopping and standing just for a moment made their legs feel like lead.\par
Everybody breathed a sigh of relief when they emerged from the twilight of the jungle into the bustling staging area in the clearing. Another half dozen blue-coveralled workers were toiling under the hot sun. They were quickly unloading the bonobos from a second trailer and getting them into individual steel cages before the animals revived.\par
The cages were four-foot square steel boxes, making it impossible for all but the youngest animals to stand up. The only source of ventilation was through the bars in the doors. The doors were secured by an angled hasp that latched around the side beyond the animal\'92s reach. Kevin was able to catch glimpses of terrified bonobos cowering within the cages\'92 shadows.\par
Such small cages were supposed to be used only for transport, but a forklift was laboriously moving them into the shade of the north-facing wall of the jungle, suggesting they were staying on the island. One of the workers was manning a hose from a gasoline-powered pump and spraying the cages and the animals with river water.\par
\'93I thought you said the bonobos were going to the animal center?\'94 Kevin asked.\par
\'93Not today,\'94 Dave said. \'93For the moment, there is no place to put them. It\'92ll be tomorrow or the next day at the very latest.\'94\par
There was no trouble getting over to the mainland because the telescoping bridge had been deployed. It was constructed of steel and had a hollow, drumlike sound as they trodded across. Parked alongside the bridge mechanism was Dave\'92s pickup truck.\par
\'93Hop in,\'94 Dave said, while pointing into the truck\'92s bed.\par
\'93Just one minute!\'94 Melanie snapped. They were her first words since leaving the cave. \'93We\'92re not riding in the back of a truck.\'94\par
\'93Then you\'92ll walk,\'94 Dave said. \'93You\'92re not riding in my cab.\'94\par
\'93Come on, Melanie,\'94 Kevin urged. \'93It will be more pleasant back here in the open air.\'94 Kevin gave Candace a hand.\par
Dave went around and got in behind the wheel.\par
Melanie resisted for another minute. With her hands on her hips, her legs spread apart, and her lips pressed together, she looked like a young girl on the verge of a temper tantrum.\par
\'93Melanie, it\'92s not that far,\'94 Candace said. She reached out her hand. Reluctantly, Melanie took it.\par
\'93I didn\'92t expect a hero\'92s welcome,\'94 Melanie complained. \'93But I didn\'92t expect this kind of treatment.\'94\par
After the damp oppressiveness of the cave and the moist hothouse of the jungle, the breezy ride in the back of the truck was unexpectedly pleasant. The bed was filled with reed mats that had been used to transport the animals, and they provided adequate cushion. The mats had a rather rank smell, but the group guessed they did, too.\par
They lay on their backs and watched patches of the late-afternoon sky appear between the branches of the overhead canopy of trees.\par
\'93What do you think they are going to do to us?\'94 Candace said. \'93I don\'92t want to go back in that jail.\'94\par
\'93Let\'92s hope they just fire us on the spot,\'94 Melanie said. \'93I\'92m ready to pack my bag and say goodbye to the Zone, the project, and Equatorial Guinea. I\'92ve had it.\'94\par
\'93I can only hope it will be that easy,\'94 Kevin said. \'93I\'92m also worried about the animals. They\'92ve been given life sentences.\'94\par
\'93There\'92s not much we can do,\'94 Candace said.\par
\'93I wonder,\'94 Kevin said. \'93I wonder what animal-rights groups would say about this situation.\'94\par
\'93Now, don\'92t say anything like that until we get the hell out of here,\'94 Melanie said. \'93That would drive everybody bananas.\'94\par
They entered the eastern end of town, passing the soccer field and tennis center on their right. Both were in use, particularly the tennis center. Every court was taken.\par
\'93An experience like this makes you feel less important than you thought you were,\'94 Melanie commented while glancing at the players. \'93You\'92re hidden away for two agonizing days and everything goes on just as it did before.\'94\par
They all pondered Melanie\'92s comment as they unconsciously braced for the sharp right-hand turn they knew was coming up to take them to the animal center. But instead, after the truck slowed, it stopped. Kevin sat up and looked ahead. He saw Bertram\'92s Jeep Cherokee.\par
\'93Siegfried wants you to drive directly to Kevin\'92s house,\'94 Bertram called to Dave.\par
\'93Okay!\'94 Dave called back.\par
The truck lurched forward as Dave pulled out behind Bertram.\par
Kevin lay back down. \'93Well, that\'92s a surprise. Maybe we\'92re not going to be treated that badly after all.\'94\par
\'93Maybe we can get them to drop Candace and me at our places,\'94 Melanie said. \'93They\'92re more or less on the way.\'94 She looked down at herself. \'93The first thing I\'92m going to do is take a shower and change clothes. Only then am I going to eat.\'94\par
Kevin got his legs under him and kneeled behind the truck\'92s cab. He rapped on the rear window until he got Dave\'92s attention. He then relayed Melanie\'92s request. The response from Dave was a wave of dismissal.\par
Kevin repositioned himself on his back. \'93I guess you have to go to my house first,\'94 he said.\par
As soon as they hit the cobblestones, the ride was so jarring that they all sat up. Rounding the last turn, Kevin looked ahead expectantly. He was as eager to take a shower as Melanie. Unfortunately what he saw was not encouraging. Siegfried and Cameron were standing out in front of his house along with four heavily armed Equatoguinean soldiers. One of the soldiers was an officer.\par
\'93Uh-oh,\'94 Kevin said. \'93This doesn\'92t look promising after all.\'94\par
The truck came to a halt. Dave hopped out and came around to put down the tailgate. Kevin was the first to climb out on stiff legs. Melanie and Candace followed.\par
Preparing himself for the inevitable, Kevin walked over to where Siegfried and Cameron were standing. He knew Melanie and Candace were right behind. Bertram, who\'92d parked in front of the pickup truck, joined them. No one looked particularly happy.\par
\'93We had hoped you\'92d taken an unannounced holiday,\'94 Siegfried said scornfully. \'93Instead, we find you have willfully disobeyed standing orders not to trespass on Isla Francesca. You\'92re all to be confined to quarters here, in this house.\'94 He pointed over his shoulder at Kevin\'92s.\par
Kevin was about to explain why they\'92d done what they had when Melanie pushed past him. She was exhausted and irate.\par
\'93I\'92m not staying here and that\'92s final,\'94 she spat. \'93In fact, I quit. I\'92ll be leaving the Zone just as soon as I can make arrangements.\'94\par
Siegfried\'92s upper lip hiked itself up to exaggerate his sneer. After a quick step forward, he backhanded Melanie viciously, knocking her down. Reflexively Candace dropped to one knee to aid her friend.\par
\'93Don\'92t touch her,\'94 Siegfried shouted, as he drew his hand back as if to strike Candace.\par
Candace ignored him and helped Melanie up into a sitting position. Melanie\'92s left eye was beginning to swell, and a trickle of blood slowly ran down her cheek.\par
Kevin winced and looked away, expecting to hear another blow. He admired Candace\'92s courage and wished that he shared some. But he was terrified of Siegfried and afraid to move.\par
When another blow did not materialize, Kevin looked back. Candace had Melanie standing shakily on her feet.\par
\'93You\'92ll be leaving the Zone soon enough,\'94 Siegfried snarled at Melanie. \'93But it will be in the company of the Equatoguinean authorities. You can try your insolence on them.\'94\par
Kevin swallowed with difficulty. Being given to the Equatoguineans was what he\'92d feared most.\par
\'93I\'92m an American,\'94 Melanie sobbed.\par
\'93But you are in Equatorial Guinea,\'94 Siegfried snapped. \'93And you\'92ve violated Equatoguinean law.\'94\par
Siegfried stepped back. \'93I\'92ve confiscated all of your passports. Just so you know, they will be given to the local authorities along with your persons. In the meantime, you are to stay here in this house. And I warn you that these soldiers and this officer have been ordered to shoot if you so much as take one step outside. Have I made myself clear?\'94\par
\'93I need some clothes,\'94 Melanie cried.\par
\'93I\'92ve had clothes for both of you women brought from your quarters and thrown into upstairs guest rooms,\'94 Siegfried said. \'93Believe me, we have thought of everything.\'94\par
Siegfried turned to Cameron. \'93See that these people are taken care of.\'94\par
\'93Of course, sir,\'94 Cameron said. He touched the tip of his hat before turning to Kevin and the women.\par
\'93Okay, you\'92ve heard the manager,\'94 he barked. \'93Upstairs you go and no trouble, please.\'94\par
Kevin started forward but he detoured enough to go by Bertram. \'93They were using more than fire. They were making tools and even talking with each other.\'94\par
Kevin walked on. He\'92d not seen any reaction in Bertram\'92s face other than a slight movement of his perpetually elevated eyebrows. But Kevin was certain Bertram had heard him.\par
As Kevin wearily climbed to the second floor, he saw Cameron already organizing an area for the soldiers and the officer to occupy at the base of the stairs.\par
Up in the front hall Kevin, Melanie, and Candace eyed each other. Melanie was still sobbing intermittently.\par
Kevin breathed out. \'93This is not good news,\'94 he said.\par
\'93They can\'92t do this to us,\'94 Melanie whimpered.\par
\'93The point is they are going to try,\'94 Kevin said. \'93And without our passports we\'92d have trouble leaving the country even if we were to walk out of here.\'94\par
Melanie put her hands on either side of her face and squeezed. \'93I\'92ve got to get ahold of myself,\'94 she said.\par
\'93I feel numb again,\'94 Candace admitted. \'93We\'92ve gone from one form of captivity to another.\'94\par
Kevin sighed. \'93At least they didn\'92t put us in the jail.\'94\par
Outside they heard multiple car engines start and vehicles pull away. Kevin went out onto the veranda and saw all the cars leaving except for Cameron\'92s. Glancing up into the sky, he noted that twilight was deepening into night. A few stars were visible.\par
Turning back into the house, Kevin went directly to the phone. Picking it up, he heard what he\'92d expected to hear: nothing.\par
\'93Is there a dial tone?\'94 Melanie asked from behind him.\par
Kevin replaced the receiver. He shook his head. \'93I\'92m afraid not.\'94\par
\'93I didn\'92t expect so,\'94 Melanie said.\par
\'93Let\'92s take showers,\'94 Candace suggested.\par
\'93Good idea,\'94 Melanie said, making an effort to sound positive.\par
After agreeing to meet in a half hour, Kevin walked back through the dining room and pushed open the kitchen door. As dirty as he was, he didn\'92t want to enter. The smell of roast chicken teased his nose.\par
Esmeralda had leaped to her feet the moment the door opened.\par
\'93Hello, Esmeralda,\'94 Kevin said.\par
\'93Welcome, Mr. Marshall,\'94 Esmeralda said.\par
\'93You didn\'92t come out to greet us like you always do,\'94 Kevin said.\par
\'93I was afraid the manager was still here,\'94 Esmeralda said. \'93He and the security man had come up earlier to say you were coming home and that you would not be able to leave the house.\'94\par
\'93That\'92s what they told me, too,\'94 Kevin said.\par
\'93I\'92ve made food for you,\'94 Esmeralda said. \'93Are you hungry?\'94\par
\'93Very much,\'94 Kevin said. \'93But there are two guests.\'94\par
\'93I know,\'94 Esmeralda said. \'93The manager told me that as well.\'94\par
\'93Can we eat in a half hour?\'94 Kevin asked.\par
\'93Certainly.\'94\par
Kevin nodded. He was lucky to have Esmeralda. He turned to leave, but Esmeralda called out to him. He hesitated, holding the door ajar.\par
\'93There are many bad things happening in the town,\'94 she said. \'93Not only for you and your friends, but also for strangers. I have a cousin who works at the hospital. She told me that four Americans came from New York and went into the hospital. They talked with the patient who got the liver from the bonobo.\'94\par
\'93Oh?\'94 Kevin questioned. Strangers coming from New York to talk to one of the transplant patients was a thoroughly unanticipated development.\par
\'93They just walked in,\'94 Esmeralda continued. \'93They were not supposed to be there. They said they were doctors. Security was called, and the army and the guards came to take them away. They are in the jail.\'94\par
\'93My word,\'94 Kevin commented, while his mind veered off on a tangent. New York reminded him of the surprising call he\'92d gotten a week previously in the middle of the night from the GenSys CEO, Taylor Cabot. It had been about the patient Carlo Franconi, who\'92d been killed in New York. Taylor Cabot had asked if someone could figure out what had happened to Carlo from an autopsy.\par
\'93My cousin knows some of the soldiers who were there,\'94 Esmeralda continued. \'93They said that the Americans will be given to the Ministers. If they are, they will be killed. I thought you should know.\'94\par
Kevin felt a chill descend his spine. He knew such a fate was what Siegfried had in mind for him, Melanie, and Candace. But who were these Americans? Had they been involved with the autopsy on Carlo Franconi?\par
\'93It is all very serious,\'94 Esmeralda said. \'93And I am afraid for you. I know you went to the forbidden island.\'94\par
\'93How do you know that?\'94 Kevin questioned with amazement.\par
\'93In our town people talk,\'94 Esmeralda said. \'93When I said you were gone unexpectedly and that the manager was looking for you, Alphonse Kimba told my husband that you had gone to the island. He was sure.\'94\par
\'93I appreciate your concern,\'94 Kevin said evasively and preoccupied with his thoughts. \'93Thank you for what you have told me.\'94\par
Kevin went back to his own room. When he looked at himself in the mirror, he was surprised how exhausted and filthy he appeared. Running a hand over his beginning beard, he noticed something more disturbing. He was beginning to look a lot like his double!\par
After a shave, shower, and clean clothes, Kevin felt revived. The entire time, he mused about the Americans in the jail under the town hall. He was very curious and would have liked nothing better than to go and talk with them.\par
Kevin found the two women were equally refreshed. The shower had transformed Melanie into her irrepressible self, and she complained bitterly about the selection of clothes she\'92d been offered. \'93Nothing goes with anything,\'94 she complained.\par
They settled in the dining room, and Esmeralda began serving the meal. Melanie laughed, after looking around at the surroundings. \'93You know, I find it almost funny that a few hours ago we were living like Neanderthals. Then, presto, we\'92re in the lap of luxury. It\'92s like a time machine.\'94\par
\'93If only we didn\'92t have to worry about what tomorrow will bring,\'94 Candace said.\par
\'93Let\'92s at least enjoy our last supper,\'94 Melanie said with her typical wry humor. \'93Besides, the more I think about it, the less likely I think it is that they can just foist us off on the Equatoguineans. I mean, they wouldn\'92t be able to get away with it. This is almost the beginning of the third millennium. The world is too small.\'94\par
\'93But I\'92m worried\~.\~.\~.\'94 Candace began.\par
\'93Excuse me,\'94 Kevin interrupted. \'93Esmeralda told me something curious that I\'92d like to share with you.\'94 Kevin started by mentioning the phone call he got in the middle of the night from Taylor Cabot. Then he told the story about the arrival and subsequent incarceration of the New Yorkers in the town\'92s jail.\par
\'93Well, this\'92s just what I\'92m talking about,\'94 Melanie said. \'93A couple of smart people do an autopsy in New York, and they end up here in Cogo. And we thought we were so isolated. I tell you the world\'92s getting smaller every day.\'94\par
\'93So you think these Americans came here following a trail that started with Franconi?\'94 Kevin asked. His intuition was telling him the same thing, but he wanted reinforcement.\par
\'93What else could it be?\'94 Melanie questioned. \'93There\'92s no question in my mind.\'94\par
\'93Candace, what do you think?\'94 Kevin asked.\par
\'93I agree with Melanie,\'94 Candace said. \'93Otherwise, it\'92s too much of a coincidence.\'94\par
\'93Thank you, Candace!\'94 Melanie said. While twirling her empty wineglass, she looked menacingly at Kevin. \'93I hate to interrupt this fascinating conversation, but where\'92s some of that great wine of yours, bucko?\'94\par
\'93Gosh, I totally forgot,\'94 Kevin said. \'93Sorry!\'94 He pushed back from the table and went into the butler\'92s pantry that he\'92d filled with his mostly untouched wine allocation. As he was looking through the labels, which held little meaning for him, he was suddenly struck by how much wine he had. Counting the bottles in a small area and extrapolating it to allow for the entire room, he realized he had more than three hundred bottles.\par
\'93My word,\'94 Kevin said as a plan began to form in his head. He grabbed an armload of bottles and pushed through the swinging door into the kitchen.\par
Esmeralda got up from where she was sitting having her own dinner.\par
\'93I have a favor to ask,\'94 Kevin said. \'93Would you take these bottles of wine and a corkscrew down to the soldiers at the foot of the stairs?\'94\par
\'93So many?\'94 she questioned.\par
\'93Yes, and I\'92d like you to take even more to the soldiers in the town hall. If they ask what the occasion is, tell them that I\'92m going away, and I wanted them to enjoy the wine, not the manager.\'94\par
A smile spread across Esmeralda\'92s face. She looked at Kevin. \'93I think I understand.\'94 From a cupboard she got the canvas bag that she used for shopping and loaded it with wine bottles. A moment later, she disappeared through the butler\'92s pantry, heading for the front hall.\par
Kevin made several trips back and forth from his wine collection to the kitchen table. Soon he had several dozen bottles lined up, including a couple bottles of port.\par
\'93What\'92s going on?\'94 Melanie enquired after sticking her head into the kitchen. \'93We\'92re waiting and where\'92s the wine?\'94\par
Kevin handed her one of the bottles. He said he\'92d be a few minutes more and they should start eating without him. Melanie rolled the bottle over to look at the label.\par
\'93Oh, my, Ch\'e2teau Latour!\'94 she said. She flashed Kevin an appreciative grin, before ducking back into the dining room.\par
Esmeralda returned to say that the soldiers were very pleased. \'93But I thought I\'92d take them some bread,\'94 she added. \'93It will stimulate their thirst.\'94\par
\'93Marvelous idea,\'94 Kevin said. He filled the canvas bag with wine and tested its weight. It was heavy, but he thought Esmeralda could handle it.\par
\'93Let me know how many soldiers are at the town hall,\'94 Kevin said as he handed her the bag. \'93We want to make sure there is plenty for everyone.\'94\par
\'93There are usually four at night,\'94 Esmeralda said.\par
\'93Then ten bottles should be fine,\'94 Kevin said. \'93At least for starters.\'94 He smiled, and Esmeralda smiled back.\par
Taking a deep breath, Kevin pushed through the door into the dining room. He wanted to see what the women thought of his idea.\par
\par
\pard\qj Kevin rolled over and looked at the clock. It was just before midnight, so he sat up and put his feet over the side of the bed. He turned off the alarm clock that had been set to go off at twelve \scaps p.m\scaps0 . sharp. Then he stretched.\par
\pard\fi283\qj During dinner, Kevin\'92s proposed plan had sparked a lively discussion. In a cooperative effort, the idea had been refined and expanded. Ultimately, all three thought it was worth attempting.\par
After making what preparations they could, they all decided to try to get a little rest. But Kevin had been unable to sleep despite his exhaustion. He was too keyed up. There was also the problem of the gradually increasing noise from the soldiers. At first, it had just been animated chatter, but during the last half hour, loud, drunken singing had reverberated from below.\par
Esmeralda had visited both groups of soldiers twice during the evening. When she returned, she reported that the expensive French wine was a big hit. After her second visit, she told Kevin that the initial deliveries of bottles had been almost drained.\par
Kevin dressed quickly in the dark, then ventured out into the hall. He did not want to turn on any lights. Luckily, the moon was bright enough for him to see his way to the guest rooms. He knocked first on Melanie\'92s door. He was startled when it was opened instantly.\par
\'93I\'92ve been waiting,\'94 Melanie whispered. \'93I couldn\'92t sleep.\'94\par
Together, they went to Candace\'92s room. She, too, was ready.\par
In the living room they picked up the small canvas bags each had prepared and walked out onto the veranda. The vista was enticingly exotic. It had rained several hours earlier, but now the sky was filled with puffy, silver-blue clouds. A gibbous moon was high in the sky, and its light made the mist-filled town glow eerily. The jungle sounds were shockingly loud in the hot, moist air.\par
They had discussed this first stage in detail so there was no need for talk now. At the far end of the veranda in the rear corner they secured the end of three sheets that had been tied together. The other end was dropped over the side to the ground.\par
Melanie had insisted on going first. She climbed nimbly over the balustrade, and lowered herself to the ground with inspiring ease. Candace was next, and her cheerleading experience stood her in good stead. She had no trouble making it down.\par
Kevin was the one who had difficulty. Trying to imitate Melanie, he pushed off with his feet. But then as he swung back toward the building he got twisted in the sheets so that he collided with the stucco, scraping his knuckles.\par
\'93Damn,\'94 he whispered, when he finally was standing on the cobblestones. He shook his hand and squeezed his fingers.\par
\'93Are you okay?\'94 Melanie whispered.\par
\'93I think so,\'94 Kevin said.\par
The next stage of their escape was more worrisome. In single file, they inched along the back of the building within the shadow of the arcade. Each step took them closer to the central stairwell, where they could hear the soldiers. A cassette recorder playing African music at low volume had been added to the festivities.\par
They reached the stall where Kevin kept his Toyota LandCruiser and slipped in along the passenger side until they reached the front. According to previously made plans, Kevin eased around the car to the driver\'92s-side door and quietly opened it. At that point, he was within fifteen to twenty feet from the inebriated soldiers who were on the opposite side of a reed mat suspended from the ceiling.\par
Kevin released the emergency brake and put the car in neutral. Returning to the women, he motioned to start pushing.\par
At first, the heavy vehicle resisted their efforts. Kevin lifted his foot to push against the house\'92s foundation. That added amount of leverage made the difference; the car eased out of its parking slot.\par
At the lip of the arcade, the cobblestones of the street slanted downward in a gentle slope so rainwater would run away from the house. As soon as the rear wheels of the vehicle passed this point, the car gained momentum. All at once, Kevin realized that no additional force was needed.\par
\'93Uh-oh!\'94 Kevin cried, as the car began to gain speed.\par
Kevin ran around the side of the car and tried to get the driver\'92s-side door open. Given the car\'92s increasing momentum, this wasn\'92t easy. The car was now halfway across the alley and beginning to curve to the right down the hill toward the waterfront.\par
Finally Kevin succeeded in opening the door. In one swift move, he dove in behind the wheel. He got in position as quickly as possible, then jammed on the brakes. At the same time, he turned the steering wheel hard to the left so as to better align the vehicle with the street.\par
Fearful their efforts might have attracted the soldiers\'92 attention, Kevin looked their way to check. The men were gathered around a small table supporting the cassette player and a half dozen empty wine bottles. The soldiers were happily clapping and stomping their feet, oblivious to Kevin\'92s maneuverings with the car.\par
Kevin breathed a sigh of relief. The passenger-side door opened and Melanie climbed in. Candace got in the back.\par
\'93Don\'92t close the door,\'94 Kevin whispered. He was still holding his ajar.\par
Kevin eased up on the brake. The car did not move at first, so he shifted his weight back and forth until he got the car rolling down the incline toward the waterfront. Kevin looked out the rear window, steering the vehicle as it began gathering speed.\par
They rolled for two blocks. At that point, the hill began to flatten out, and the car eventually came to a stop. Only then did Kevin slip the key into the ignition and start the engine. They all closed their doors.\par
They looked at each other in the half light of the car\'92s interior. They were all keyed up and their pulses were racing. Everyone smiled.\par
\'93We did it!\'94 Melanie asserted.\par
\'93So far so good,\'94 Kevin agreed.\par
Kevin put the car in gear. He turned right for several blocks to give his house a wide berth and headed for the motor pool.\par
\'93You\'92re pretty sure no one will give us trouble at the garage,\'94 Melanie said.\par
\'93Well, there\'92s no way to know for sure,\'94 Kevin said. \'93But I don\'92t think so. The motor-pool people live a life of their own. Besides, Siegfried has probably kept the story of our disappearance and reappearance a secret. He\'92d have to if he were truly planning on handing us over to the Equatoguinean authorities.\'94\par
\'93I hope you are right,\'94 Melanie said. She sighed. \'93I\'92m half wondering if we shouldn\'92t just try to drive out of the Zone behind one of the trucks instead of bothering with four Americans we\'92ve never met.\'94\par
\'93Those people got in here somehow,\'94 Kevin said. \'93I\'92m counting on their having had a plan to get out. Running the main gate should be considered our last-ditch option.\'94\par
They pulled into the busy motor-pool facility. They had to squint under the glare of the mercury-vapor lights. They continued until they came to the repair section. Kevin parked behind a bay with the cab of a semi up on the hydraulic lift. Several greasy mechanics were standing under it, scratching their heads.\par
\'93Wait here,\'94 Kevin said, as he alighted from the Toyota.\par
He walked inside and greeted the men.\par
Melanie and Candace watched. Candace literally had her fingers crossed.\par
\'93Well, at least they didn\'92t bolt for the telephone the moment they saw him,\'94 Melanie said.\par
The women watched as one of the mechanics sauntered off and disappeared through a door in the rear of the facility. He reappeared a moment later, carrying a lengthy hunk of heavy chain. He gave it to Kevin who staggered under its weight.\par
As his face turned a progressively brighter shade of red, Kevin stumbled back toward the LandCruiser. Sensing he was about to drop the chain, Melanie hopped out of the car to open the luggage area.\par
The vehicle lurched as Kevin dropped the chain onto the tailgate.\par
\'93I told them I wanted heavy chain,\'94 Kevin managed. \'93It didn\'92t have to be this heavy.\'94\par
\'93What did you say to those men?\'94 Melanie asked.\par
\'93I said that your car got stuck in some mud,\'94 Kevin said. \'93They didn\'92t bat an eyelash. Of course, they didn\'92t offer to come and help, either.\'94\par
Kevin and Melanie returned inside the Toyota, and they started back toward town.\par
\'93You\'92re sure this is going to work?\'94 Candace asked from the rear seat.\par
\'93No, but I can\'92t think of anything else,\'94 Kevin said.\par
For the rest of the trip, no one spoke. They all knew this was the most difficult part of the whole plan. The tension mounted as they turned into the parking lot for the town hall and doused the headlights.\par
The room occupied by the army post was ablaze with light. As they got closer Kevin, Melanie, and Candace could hear the music. This group of soldiers also had a cassette player, only theirs was cranking out African music at full volume.\par
\'93That\'92s the kind of party I was counting on,\'94 Kevin said. He made a wide turn and then backed toward the building. He could just make out the window wells for the subterranean jail within the shadows of the ground-floor arcade.\par
He stopped the car within five feet of the building and put on the emergency brake. All three gazed into the room occupied by the soldiers. They couldn\'92t see much of the room and none of the soldiers because the line of sight was on an angle through an unglazed window. The window\'92s shutter had been raised and hooked to the ceiling of the arcade. A number of empty wine bottles were on the sill.\par
\'93Well, it\'92s now or never,\'94 Kevin said.\par
\'93Can we help?\'94 Melanie asked.\par
\'93No, stay put,\'94 Kevin said.\par
Kevin climbed from the car and walked in under the nearest arch to stand within the shelter of the arcade. The sound of the music was deafening. Kevin\'92s major concern was that if someone looked out the window, Kevin would be seen immediately. There was nothing to hide behind.\par
Looking down at the window well, Kevin could see the barred opening. Beyond the bars was utter darkness. There was not the faintest light within the cell.\par
Getting down on his hands and knees first, Kevin lay on the stone floor with his head over the lip of the window well. With his face close to the bars, he called out over the noise of the music: \'93Hello! Anybody in there?\'94\par
\'93Just us tourists,\'94 Jack said. \'93Are we invited to the party?\'94\par
\'93I understand you are Americans,\'94 Kevin said.\par
\'93Like apple pie and baseball,\'94 Jack said.\par
Kevin could suddenly hear other voices in the dark, but they were unintelligible.\par
\'93You people have to realize what a dangerous situation you\'92ve gotten yourselves into,\'94 Kevin said.\par
\'93Really,\'94 Jack said. \'93We thought this was how all visitors to Cogo were treated.\'94\par
Kevin thought that whomever he was speaking with would certainly get along well with Melanie.\par
\'93I\'92m going to try to pull these bars out,\'94 Kevin said. \'93Are you all in the same cell?\'94\par
\'93No, we have two beautiful ladies in the cell to my left.\'94\par
\'93Okay,\'94 Kevin said. \'93Let\'92s see what I can do with these bars first.\'94\par
Kevin got up and went back for the chain. Returning to the window well, he threaded one end through the bars into the abyss.\par
\'93Hook this around one of the bars a number of times,\'94 Kevin said.\par
\'93I like this,\'94 Jack said. \'93It reminds me of an old Western movie.\'94\par
Back at the Toyota, Kevin secured the chain to the trailer hitch. When he got back to the window well he gently pulled on the chain. He could see it was tied securely around the central bar.\par
\'93Looks good,\'94 Kevin said. \'93Let\'92s see what happens.\'94\par
He climbed back into the vehicle and made sure it was in its lowest four-wheel drive gear. Looking out the back window, Kevin cautiously eased the car forward to take the slack out of the chain.\par
\'93All right, here we go,\'94 Kevin said to Melanie and Candace. He began to press on the accelerator. The heavy-duty Toyota engine strained, but Kevin couldn\'92t hear it. The hum of the motor was drowned out by the frenzied beat of a popular Zairean rock group.\par
Suddenly, the vehicle lurched forward. Hastily, Kevin braked. Behind them they heard a terrible clanging over the sound of the music like someone hitting a fire escape with a curbstone.\par
Kevin and the women winced. They looked back at the opening into the army post. To their relief, no one appeared to check out the awful sound.\par
Kevin jumped out of the Toyota with the intention of going back to see what had happened when he almost ran into an impressively muscled black man heading right for him.\par
\'93Good job, man! My name\'92s Warren and this is Jack.\'94 Jack had come up alongside Warren.\par
\'93I\'92m Kevin.\'94\par
\'93Cool,\'94 Warren said. \'93You back these wheels up, and we\'92ll see what we can do with the other opening.\'94\par
\'93How did you get out so quickly?\'94 Kevin asked.\par
\'93Man, you pulled out the whole friggin\'92 frame,\'94 Warren said.\par
Kevin climbed into the car and slowly backed up. He could see the two men had already detached the chain.\par
\'93It worked!\'94 Melanie said. \'93Congratulations.\'94\par
\'93I must admit it was better than I thought,\'94 Kevin said.\par
A moment later, someone thumped on the back of the Toyota. When Kevin looked, he could see one of the men wave for him to go forward.\par
Kevin used the same driving technique he\'92d used the first episode. With approximately the same amount of power there was the same sudden release and unfortunately the same clanging noise. This time a soldier had appeared at the window.\par
Kevin didn\'92t move, and he prayed the two men he\'92d just met did the same. The soldier proceeded to bring a wine bottle to his lips and in the process knocked several of the empties off the sill. They shattered on the stone pavement. Then he turned and disappeared back into the room.\par
Kevin got out of the vehicle in time to see two women being extracted from the second window well. As soon as they were free, all four rushed for the car. Kevin went around to detach the chain but found that Warren was already in the process of doing so.\par
They all climbed into the Toyota without discussion. Jack and Warren squeezed into the jump seats in the back while Laurie and Natalie joined Candace on the middle bench.\par
Kevin put the car in gear. After a final glance at the army post, he drove from the parking lot. He didn\'92t switch on the lights until they were away from town hall.\par
The escape had been a heady experience for everyone: triumph for Kevin, Melanie, and Candace; surprise and utter relief for the crew from New York. The seven exchanged terse introductions; then the questions started. At first, everyone spoke at the same time.\par
\'93Wait a second, everybody!\'94 Jack shouted over the babble. \'93We need some order in this chaos. Only one person at a time.\'94\par
\'93Well, damn!\'94 Warren said. \'93I\'92m going first! I just want to thank you guys for coming when you did.\'94\par
\'93I\'92ll second that,\'94 Laurie said.\par
Having cleared the central part of town, Kevin pulled into the parking lot for the main supermarket. There were several other cars. He stopped and turned off the lights and the engine.\par
\'93Before we talk about anything else,\'94 Kevin said. \'93We\'92ve got to talk about getting out of this town. We don\'92t have a lot of time. How did you people originally plan on leaving?\'94\par
\'93By the same boat we came in on,\'94 Jack said.\par
\'93Where\'92s the boat?\'94 Kevin asked.\par
\'93We assume it\'92s where we left it,\'94 Jack said. \'93Pulled up on the beach under the pier.\'94\par
\'93Is it big enough for all of us?\'94 Kevin asked.\par
\'93With room to spare,\'94 Jack said.\par
\'93Perfect!\'94 Kevin said with excitement. \'93I was hoping you\'92d come by boat. That way we can go directly to Gabon.\'94 He faced around quickly and restarted the engine. \'93Let\'92s just pray it\'92s not been found.\'94\par
He drove out of the parking lot and began a circuitous route to the waterfront. He wanted to stay as far from the town hall and his own house as possible.\par
\'93We have a problem,\'94 Jack said. \'93We have no identification or money. Everything was taken from us.\'94\par
\'93We\'92re not much better off,\'94 Kevin said. \'93But we do have some money, both cash and travelers checks. Our passports were confiscated when we were put under house arrest this afternoon. We were destined for the same fats as you: to be turned over to the Equatoguinean authorities.\'94\par
\'93Would that have been a problem?\'94 Jack asked.\par
Kevin let out a little derisive laugh. In the back of his mind, he could see the skulls on Siegfried\'92s desk. \'93It would have been more than a problem. It would have meant a hush-hush mock trial followed by a firing squad.\'94\par
\'93No shit!\'94 Warren said.\par
\'93In this country, it is a capital offense to interfere with GenSys operations,\'94 Kevin said. \'93And the manager is the one who decides whether someone is interfering or not.\'94\par
\'93A firing squad?\'94 Jack repeated with horror.\par
\'93I\'92m afraid so,\'94 Kevin said. \'93The army here is good at it. They\'92ve had a lot of practice over the years.\'94\par
\'93Then we\'92re even more in debt to you people than we thought,\'94 Jack said. \'93I\'92d no idea.\'94\par
Laurie looked out the side window of the car and shuddered. It was just sinking in how seriously her life was on the line and that the threat was not yet over.\par
\'93How come you guys were in the soup?\'94 Warren asked.\par
\'93It\'92s a long story,\'94 Melanie said.\par
\'93So is ours,\'94 Laurie said.\par
\'93I have a question,\'94 Kevin said. \'93Did you people come here because of Carlo Franconi?\'94\par
\'93Whoa!\'94 Jack said. \'93Such clairvoyance! I\'92m impressed, and intrigued. How did you guess? What exactly is your role here in Cogo?\'94\par
\'93Me, in particular?\'94 Kevin asked.\par
\'93Well, all of you,\'94 Jack said.\par
Kevin, Melanie, and Candace looked at each other to see who wanted to speak first.\par
\'93We were all part of the same program,\'94 Candace said. \'93But I was just a minor player. I\'92m an intensive-care nurse for a surgical transplant team.\'94\par
\'93I\'92m a reproductive technologist,\'94 Melanie said. \'93I provide the raw materials for Kevin to work his magic, and once he has, I see to it that his creations are brought to fruition.\'94\par
\'93I\'92m a molecular biologist,\'94 Kevin explained with a sigh of regret. \'93Someone who overstepped his bounds and committed a Promethean blunder.\'94\par
\'93Hold up,\'94 Jack said. \'93Don\'92t go too literary on me. I know I\'92ve heard of Prometheus, but I can\'92t remember who he was.\'94\par
\'93Prometheus was a Titan in Greek mythology,\'94 Laurie said. \'93He stole fire from Olympus and gave it to man.\'94\par
\'93I inadvertently gave fire to some animals,\'94 Kevin said. \'93I stumbled on the way to move chromosome parts, particularly the short arm of chromosome six from one cell to another, from one species to another.\'94\par
\'93So you took chromosome parts from humans and put them into an ape,\'94 Jack said.\par
\'93Into the fertilized egg of an ape,\'94 Kevin said. \'93A bonobo to be exact.\'94\par
\'93And what you were really doing,\'94 Jack continued, \'93was custom-designing the perfect organ transplant source for a specific individual.\'94\par
\'93Exactly,\'94 Kevin said. \'93It wasn\'92t what I had in mind in the beginning. I was just a pure researcher. What I ended up doing was something I was lured into because of its economic potential.\'94\par
\'93Wow!\'94 Jack commented. \'93Ingenious and impressive, but also a little scary.\'94\par
\'93It\'92s more than scary,\'94 Kevin said. \'93It\'92s a tragedy of sorts. The problem is I transferred too many human genes. I\'92ve accidently created a race of protohumans.\'94\par
\'93You mean like Neanderthals?\'94 Laurie asked.\par
\'93More primitive by millions of years,\'94 Kevin said. \'93More like Lucy. But they\'92re intelligent enough to use fire, make tools, and even converse. I think they are the way we were four or five million years ago.\'94\par
\'93Where are these creatures?\'94 Laurie asked with alarm.\par
\'93They\'92re on a nearby island,\'94 Kevin said, \'93where they have been living in comparative freedom. Unfortunately, that\'92s all about to change.\'94\par
\'93Why is that?\'94 Laurie asked. In her mind\'92s eye, she could see these protohumans. As a child she\'92d been fascinated by cavemen.\par
Kevin quickly told the story of the smoke eventually bringing him, Melanie, and Candace to the island. He related how they\'92d been captured and then rescued. He also told them about the creatures\'92 fate effacing lifelong internment in tiny concrete cells purely because they were too human.\par
\'93That\'92s awful,\'94 Laurie commented.\par
\'93It\'92s a disaster!\'94 Jack said with a shake of his head. \'93What a story!\'94\par
\'93This world isn\'92t ready for a new race,\'94 Warren said. \'93We\'92ve got enough trouble with what we have already.\'94\par
\'93We\'92re coming up on the waterfront,\'94 Kevin announced. \'93The square at the base of the pier is around the next bend.\'94\par
\'93Then stop here,\'94 Jack said. \'93There was a soldier there when we arrived.\'94\par
Kevin pulled over to the side of the road and turned off the headlights. He kept the engine running for the air-conditioning. Jack and Warren got out the back and ran down to the corner. Carefully, they peeked around the bend.\par
\'93If our boat is not there, are there other boats around here?\'94 Laurie asked.\par
\'93I\'92m afraid not,\'94 Kevin said.\par
\'93Is there another way out of town besides the main gate?\'94 Laurie asked.\par
\'93That\'92s it,\'94 Kevin said.\par
\'93Heaven help us,\'94 Laurie commented.\par
Jack and Warren came back quickly. Kevin lowered his window.\par
\'93There\'92s a soldier,\'94 Jack said. \'93He\'92s none too attentive. In fact, he might even be asleep. But we\'92ll still have to deal with him. I think it best you all stay here.\'94\par
\'93Fine by me,\'94 Kevin said. He was more than happy to leave such business up to others. If left to him, he wouldn\'92t have had any idea what to do.\par
Jack and Warren returned to the corner and disappeared.\par
Kevin raised his window.\par
Laurie looked at Natalie and shook her head. \'93I\'92m sorry about all this. I suppose I should have known. Jack seems to have a penchant for finding trouble.\'94\par
\'93No need to apologize,\'94 Natalie said. \'93It\'92s certainly not your fault. Besides, things are looking a lot better than they did only fifteen or twenty minutes ago.\'94\par
Jack and Warren reappeared in a surprisingly short time. Jack was holding a handgun, while Warren was carrying an assault rifle. They got into the back of the Toyota.\par
\'93Any problem?\'94 Kevin asked.\par
\'93Nope,\'94 Jack said. \'93He was very accommodating. Of course, Warren can be very persuasive when he wants to be.\'94\par
\'93Does the Chickee Hut Bar have a parking area?\'94 Warren asked.\par
\'93It does,\'94 Kevin said.\par
\'93Drive there!\'94 Warren said.\par
Kevin backed up, took a right and then the first left. At the end of the block he pulled into an expansive asphalt parking lot. The darkened Chickee Hut Bar was silhouetted ahead. Beyond the bar was the sparkling expanse of the broad estuary. Its surface shimmered in the moonlight.\par
Kevin drove directly up to the bar and stopped.\par
\'93You all wait here,\'94 Warren said. \'93I\'92ll check on the boat.\'94 He climbed out with the assault rifle and quickly disappeared around the bar.\par
\'93He moves quickly,\'94 Melanie commented.\par
\'93You have no idea,\'94 Jack said.\par
\'93Is that Gabon on the other side of the water?\'94 Laurie asked.\par
\'93It sure is,\'94 Melanie said.\par
\'93How far is it?\'94 Jack asked.\par
\'93About four miles straight across,\'94 Kevin said. \'93But we should try to get to Cocobeach. That\'92s about ten miles away. From there we can contact the American Embassy in Libreville who will certainly be able to help us.\'94\par
\'93How long will it take to get to Cocobeach?\'94 Laurie asked.\par
\'93I\'92d estimate a little more than an hour,\'94 Kevin said. \'93Of course, it depends on the speed of the boat.\'94\par
Warren reappeared and came to the car. Kevin lowered his window again.\par
\'93We\'92re cool,\'94 Warren said. \'93The boat\'92s there. No problem.\'94\par
\'93Hooray,\'94 everybody replied in unison. They piled out of the car. Kevin, Melanie, and Candace brought their canvas bags.\par
\'93Is that your luggage?\'94 Laurie teased.\par
\'93This is it,\'94 Candace said.\par
Warren led the group into the darkened bar and around to where there were steps to the beach.\par
\'93Let\'92s move quickly until we get behind the retaining wall,\'94 Warren said. He motioned for the others to precede him.\par
It was dark beneath the pier, and everyone had to move slowly. Along with the sound of the small waves lapping against the shore was the noise of large crabs scampering into their sand burrows.\par
\'93We\'92ve got a couple of flashlights,\'94 Kevin said. \'93Should we use them?\'94\par
\'93Let\'92s not take the chance,\'94 Jack said as he literally bumped into the boat. He made sure it was reasonably stable before telling everyone to climb in and move to the stern. As soon as everyone had done so, Jack could feel the bow become lighter. Leaning against the boat, he began to push it out.\par
\'93Watch out for the crossbeams,\'94 Jack said as he jumped aboard.\par
Everyone helped by reaching for the wood piles and pulling the boat silently along. It took them only a few minutes to travel to the end of the pier which was blocked by the floating dock. At that point they angled the boat out into moonlit open water.\par
There were only four paddles. Besides the men, Melanie insisted on paddling.\par
\'93I want to get about a hundred yards away from the shore before I start the motor,\'94 Jack explained. \'93There\'92s no sense taking any chances.\'94\par
Everyone looked back at peaceful-appearing Cogo whose whitewashed buildings shrouded in mist glimmered in the silver moonlight. The surrounding jungle limned the town with midnight blue. The walls of vegetation were like tidal waves about to break.\par
The night sounds of the jungle fell astern. The only noise became the gurgle of the paddles passing through the water or their scraping along the side of the boat. For a time, no one spoke. Racing hearts slowed, and breathing tended toward normal. There was time to think and even look around. The newcomers in particular were captivated by the arresting beauty of the nocturnal African landscape. Its sheer size was overwhelming. Everything seemed bigger in Africa, even the night sky.\par
For Kevin it was different. His relief of having escaped Cogo and having helped others to do so as well, only made his anguish about the fate of his chimeric bonobos that much more poignant. It had been a mistake to have created them, but abandoning them to a lifetime of captivity in a tiny cage compounded his guilt.\par
After a time, Jack picked up his oar and dropped it into the bottom of the boat. \'93Time to start the engine,\'94 he announced. He grasped the outboard and tilted it down into the water.\par
\'93Wait a second,\'94 Kevin said suddenly. \'93I have a request. Something I have no right to ask of you people, but it is important.\'94\par
Jack straightened up from bending over the gas tank. \'93What\'92s on your mind, sport?\'94 he asked.\par
\'93See that island, the last one in the chain?\'94 Kevin said while pointing toward Isla Francesca. \'93That\'92s where all the bonobos are. They\'92re in cages at the foot of a bridge to the mainland. I\'92d like nothing better than to go over there and release them.\'94\par
\'93What would that accomplish?\'94 Laurie asked.\par
\'93A lot if I could get them to cross the bridge,\'94 Kevin said.\par
\'93Wouldn\'92t your Cogo friends just round them up again?\'94 Jack asked.\par
\'93They\'92d never find them,\'94 Kevin said, warming to his idea. \'93They\'92d vanish. From this part of Equatorial Guinea and stretching for a thousand miles inland is mostly virginal rain forest. It encompasses not only this country but vast regions of Gabon, Cameroon, Congo, and Central African Republic. It\'92s got to be a million square miles, parts of which are still literally unexplored.\'94\par
\'93Just let them go by themselves?\'94 Candace asked.\par
\'93That\'92s exactly the point,\'94 Kevin said. \'93They\'92d have a chance, and I think they\'92d make it! They\'92re resourceful. Look at our ancestors. They had to live through the Pleistocene ice age. That was more of a challenge than living in a rain forest.\'94\par
Laurie looked at Jack. \'93I like the idea.\'94\par
Jack glanced at the island, then asked which direction was Cocobeach.\par
\'93We\'92d be going out of our way,\'94 Kevin admitted, \'93but it\'92s not far. Twenty minutes tops.\'94\par
\'93What if you let them out and they stay on the island?\'94 Warren said.\par
\'93At least I could tell myself I tried,\'94 Kevin said. \'93I feel that I have to do something.\'94\par
\'93Hey, why not?\'94 Jack said. \'93I think I like the idea too. What does everybody else say?\'94\par
\'93To tell you the truth, I\'92d like to see one of these animals,\'94 Warren said.\par
\'93Let\'92s go,\'94 Candace said enthusiastically.\par
\'93Okay by me,\'94 Natalie said.\par
\'93I couldn\'92t think of a better idea,\'94 Melanie said. \'93Let\'92s do it!\'94\par
Jack gave the engine cord a few pulls. The outboard roared to life. Pushing over the helm, Jack steered toward Isla Francesca.\par
\par
\par
\pard\qj\fs32 CHAPTER 23\par
\pard\fi283\qj\fs24\par
\pard\qr MARCH 10, 1997\par
1:45 A.M.\par
COCO, EQUATORIAL GUINEA\par
\pard\fi283\qj\par
\pard\qj SIEGFRIED had dreamed the dream a hundred times, and each time it had gotten a little worse. In it, he was approaching a female elephant with a young calf. He didn\'92t like doing it, but a client couple demanded it. It was the wife who wanted to see the baby up close.\par
\pard\fi283\qj Siegfried had sent trackers out laterally to protect the flank while he and the couple neared the mother. But the trackers to the north became terrified when a huge bull elephant appeared. They ran, and to compound their cowardice, they failed to warn Siegfried of the danger.\par
The sound of the enormous elephant charging through the underbrush was like the thunder of an oncoming train. Its shrieks built to a crescendo, and just before impact Siegfried woke up bathed in sweat.\par
Panting, Siegfried rolled over and sat up. Reaching through the mosquito netting, he found a glass of water and took a drink. The problem with his dream was that it was too real. This was the incident through which he\'92d lost the use of his right arm and had the skin of his face flayed open.\par
Siegfried sat on the edge of his bed for a few moments before he realized the shrieking he\'92d thought was from his dream was coming from outside his window. A moment later, he realized the source: loud West African rock music emanating from a cheap cassette player.\par
Siegfried looked at the clock. Seeing that it was close to two \scaps a.m\scaps0 ., he became instantly incensed. Who could be so insolent to make such noise at that time in the morning?\par
Sensing the noise was coming across the green in front of his house, he got out of bed and stepped onto the veranda. To his surprise and dismay the music was coming from Kevin Marshall\'92s. In fact, Siegfried could see who was responsible: It was the soldiers guarding the house.\par
Anger coursed through Siegfried\'92s body like a bolt of electricity. Ducking back inside his bedroom, he called Cameron and ordered the security director to meet him over at Kevin\'92s. Siegfried slammed the phone down. He pulled on his clothes. As he left the house he grabbed one of his old hunting carbines.\par
Siegfried walked directly across the green. The closer he got to Kevin\'92s, the louder the music became. The soldiers were in a puddle of light beneath a bare light bulb. Sprinkled across the ground at their feet were numerous empty bottles of wine. Two of the soldiers were singing along with the music while playing imaginary instruments. The other two appeared to have passed out.\par
By the time Siegfried got to the scene, Cameron\'92s car had careened down the cobblestone street and screeched to a halt. Cameron jumped out. He was still buttoning his shirt as he approached Siegfried. He glanced at the inebriated soldiers and was clearly appalled.\par
Cameron started to apologize when Siegfried cut him off. \'93Forget about explanations and excuses,\'94 he said. \'93Get upstairs and make sure Mr. Marshall and his two friends are tucked in for the night.\'94\par
Cameron touched the tip of hat in faint salute. He disappeared up the stairs. Siegfried could hear him pounding on the door. A moment later, several lights went on in the living quarters.\par
Siegfried fumed as he watched the soldiers. They hadn\'92t even noticed his presence or Cameron\'92s.\par
Cameron came back looking pale and shaking his head. \'93They\'92re not there.\'94\par
Siegfried tried to control his anger enough to think. The level of incompetence with which he had to work was astounding.\par
\'93What about his LandCruiser?\'94 Siegfried snapped.\par
\'93I\'92ll check,\'94 Cameron said. He ran back, literally pushing his way through the singing soldiers. He returned almost instantly. \'93It\'92s gone.\'94\par
\'93What a surprise!\'94 Siegfried said sarcastically. Then he snapped his fingers and motioned toward Cameron\'92s car.\par
Siegfried got in the front seat while Cameron climbed in behind the wheel.\par
\'93Call and alert your security force,\'94 Siegfried ordered. \'93I want Kevin\'92s car found immediately. And call the gate. Make sure it hasn\'92t left the Zone. Meanwhile, take me to town hall.\'94\par
Cameron used his car phone as he maneuvered his vehicle around the block. Both numbers were stored in his phone\'92s autodialer so it was a hands-free operation. Stomping on the accelerator, he headed north.\par
By the time they neared the town hall, the official search for Kevin\'92s car had been initiated. It was readily determined that the vehicle had not tried to go through the gate. As they turned into the parking lot both heard the music.\par
\'93Uh-oh!\'94 Cameron said.\par
Siegfried stayed silent. He was trying to prepare himself for what he now suspected.\par
Cameron pulled to a halt at the building. His headlights picked up the debris that had resulted when the bar frames had been yanked out of the wall. The pile of chain was visible.\par
\'93This is a disaster,\'94 Siegfried said with a tremulous voice. He stepped out of the car with the carbine. Although he had to hold the gun with one hand, he was an accomplished marksman. In quick succession he pulled off three rounds and three of the empty wine bottles on the windowsill of the army post burst into shards of glass. But the music did not falter.\par
Gripping the gun tightly in his good hand, Siegfried went over to the army-post window and looked in. The cassette player was on the desk with its volume pegged at max. The four soldiers were passed out either on the floor or slouched in the rickety furniture.\par
Siegfried raised the gun. He pulled the trigger and the cassette player flew off the desk. In an instant, the scene was thrust into a painful silence.\par
Siegfried went back to Cameron. \'93Call the colonel of the garrison. Tell him what has happened. Tell him I want these men court-martialed. Tell him to get a contingent of soldiers here immediately with a vehicle.\'94\par
\'93Yes, sir!\'94 Cameron intoned.\par
Siegfried stepped beneath the arcade and looked at the bars that had been pulled from the jail-cell windows. They were hand forged. Looking at the openings, he could tell why they\'92d come out so easily. The mortar between the bricks under the stucco had turned to sand.\par
To get himself under control, Siegfried walked all the way around the town hall. By the time he rounded the final corner, headlights were coming along the road. They turned into the parking lot. With screeching tires the security patrol car came to a halt next to Cameron\'92s car, and the duty officer jumped out.\par
Siegfried cursed under his breath as he approached. With Kevin and the women plus the Americans missing, the bonobo project was in serious jeopardy. They had to be found.\par
\'93Mr. Spallek,\'94 Cameron said. \'93I have some information. Officer O\'92Leary thinks he saw Kevin Marshall\'92s car ten minutes ago. Of course, we can quickly confirm it if it is still there.\'94\par
\'93Where?\'94 Siegfried asked.\par
\'93In the lot by the Chickee Hut Bar,\'94 O\'92Leary said. \'93I noticed it on my last tour.\'94\par
\'93Did you see any people?\'94\par
\'93No, sir! Not a soul.\'94\par
\'93There\'92s supposed to be a guard down there,\'94 Siegfried said. \'93Did you see him?\'94\par
\'93Not really, sir,\'94 O\'92Leary said.\par
\'93What do you mean \'91not really\'92?\'94 Siegfried growled. He was fed up with incompetence.\par
\'93We don\'92t make it a point to pay much attention to the soldiers,\'94 O\'92Leary said.\par
Siegfried looked off in the distance. In a further attempt to control his anger, he forced himself to notice how the moonlight reflected off the vegetation. The beauty calmed him to a degree, and he reluctantly admitted that he didn\'92t pay much attention to the soldiers, either. Rather than serving any truly utilitarian purpose, they were just there; one of the costs of doing business with the Equatoguinean government. But why would Kevin\'92s car be at the Chickee Hut Bar? Then it dawned on him.\par
\'93Cameron, was it determined how the Americans got into town?\'94 Siegfried asked.\par
\'93I\'92m afraid not,\'94 Cameron said.\par
\'93Was a boat searched for?\'94 Siegfried asked.\par
Cameron looked at O\'92Leary, who reluctantly replied. \'93I didn\'92t know anything about looking for a boat.\'94\par
\'93What about when you relieved Hansen at eleven?\'94 Cameron asked. \'93When he briefed you, did he mention he\'92d looked for a boat?\'94\par
\'93Not a word, sir,\'94 O\'92Leary said.\par
Cameron swallowed. He turned to Siegfried. \'93I\'92ll just have to follow up on this and get back to you later.\'94\par
\'93In other words, no one looked for a goddamn boat!\'94 Siegfried snapped. \'93This is a comedy around here, but I\'92m not laughing.\'94\par
\'93I gave specific orders for a search for a boat,\'94 Cameron said.\par
\'93Obviously, orders are not enough, you lunkhead,\'94 Siegfried spat. \'93You are supposed to be in charge. You are responsible.\'94\par
Siegfried closed his eyes and gritted his teeth. He\'92d lost both groups. All he could do at this point was have the colonel call the army post in Acalayong in the unlikely event the escapees might land there. But Siegfried was far from optimistic. He knew that if the tables were turned and he\'92d been the one fleeing, he\'92d go to Gabon.\par
All of a sudden, Siegfried\'92s eyes popped open. Another thought occurred to him: a more worrisome thought.\par
\'93Is there a guard out at Isla Francesca?\'94 he asked.\par
\'93No, sir. None was requested.\'94\par
\'93What about at the bridge on the mainland?\'94 Siegfried persisted.\par
\'93There was until you ordered it removed,\'94 Cameron said.\par
\'93Then, we\'92re going right now,\'94 Siegfried said. He started for Cameron\'92s car. As he did so, three vehicles sped down the street and turned into the parking lot. They were army jeeps. They swooped over to the two parked vehicles and stopped. All of them were filled with soldiers bristling with guns.\par
From the front jeep stepped Colonel Mongomo. In contrast to the slovenly soldiers, he was impeccably attired in his martial finery complete with medals. Despite the fact that it was night, he wore aviator sunglasses. He saluted Siegfried stiffly and said he was at his service.\par
\'93I\'92d be very appreciative if you took care of those drunk soldiers,\'94 Siegfried said in a controlled fashion, while pointing toward the post. \'93There\'92s another group where Officer O\'92Leary can take you. And tell one of these jeeps full of soldiers to follow us. We may need their firepower.\'94\par
\par
\pard\qj Kevin motioned for Jack to slow down. Jack cut back on the throttle and the heavy pirogue quickly lost momentum. They had entered the narrow channel between Isla Francesca and the mainland. It was significantly darker than out in the open water because the trees on either side formed a canopy.\par
\pard\fi283\qj Kevin was worried about the rope for the feeding float and he\'92d positioned himself in the bow. He\'92d explained it to Jack so Jack was prepared.\par
\'93It\'92s eerie in here,\'94 Laurie said.\par
\'93Listen to how loud the animals are,\'94 Natalie said.\par
\'93What you are hearing are mostly frogs,\'94 Melanie said. \'93Romantically inclined frogs.\'94\par
\'93It\'92s coming up just ahead,\'94 Kevin said.\par
Jack cut the engine then stood in order to tip the outboard out of the water.\par
There was a soft thud and a scraping noise as the boat passed over the rope.\par
\'93Let\'92s paddle,\'94 Kevin said. \'93It\'92s only a little way farther, and I wouldn\'92t want to hit a log in the dark.\'94\par
The dense jungle on the right fell away as they reached the staging area clearing. Once again they were in moonlight.\par
\'93Oh, no!\'94 Kevin cried from the bow. \'93The bridge is not deployed. Damn!\'94\par
\'93That shouldn\'92t be a problem,\'94 Melanie said. \'93I still have the key.\'94 She held it up, and it glinted in the low light. \'93I had a feeling it would come in handy someday.\'94\par
\'93Oh, Melanie!\'94 Kevin gushed. \'93You\'92re wonderful. For a moment there, I thought all was lost.\'94\par
\'93A deployable bridge that needs a key?\'94 Jack questioned. \'93That\'92s mighty sophisticated for out here in the jungle.\'94\par
\'93There\'92s a dock coming up on our right,\'94 Kevin said. \'93That\'92s where we\'92ll tie the boat up.\'94\par
Jack was in the stern. He used his oar to back paddle so the bow turned toward the island. A few minutes later, they quietly bumped against wood planking.\par
\'93Okay, everybody,\'94 Kevin said. He took a breath. He was nervous. He knew he was out of character since he was about to do something he\'92d never done before: be a hero of sorts. \'93Here\'92s what I suggest. You all stay in the boat. At least for now. I really don\'92t know how these animals are going to react to me. They\'92re unbelievably strong, so there is a risk. I\'92m willing to take it for the reasons I\'92ve already talked about, but I don\'92t want to put any of you in jeopardy. Is that reasonable?\'94\par
\'93It\'92s reasonable, but I don\'92t know if I agree,\'94 Jack said. \'93Seems to me you are going to need some help.\'94\par
\'93Besides, with this AK-47 it\'92s not as if we can\'92t defend ourselves,\'94 Warren said.\par
\'93No shooting!\'94 Kevin said. \'93Please. Particularly not for my benefit. That\'92s why I want you all to stay here. If things go badly, just leave.\'94\par
Melanie stood up. \'93I\'92m almost as responsible as you for these creatures\'92 existence. I\'92m helping whether you like it or not, bucko.\'94\par
Kevin made an expression of exasperation.\par
\'93No pouting,\'94 Melanie said. She climbed out of the boat onto the dock.\par
\'93Sounds like a party,\'94 Jack said. He stood up to follow Melanie\'92s lead.\par
\'93You sit down!\'94 Melanie said sternly. \'93At the moment, it\'92s a private party.\'94\par
Jack sat.\par
Kevin got out his flashlight and joined Melanie on the dock. \'93We\'92ll work very quickly,\'94 he promised.\par
The first line of business was the bridge. Without it, the plan would fail no matter what the response was from the animals. Kevin put in the key. As he turned it on and pressed the green button, he held his breath. Almost immediately he heard the whine of a battery-driven electric motor from the mainland side. Then in slow motion the telescoping bridge extended across the dark river to make contact with the cement stanchion on the island.\par
Kevin climbed up on it to make sure it was solidly seated. He tried to shake it but it was rigidly in place. Satisfied, he got down, and he and Melanie hiked in the direction of the forest. They couldn\'92t see the cages because of the darkness of the shadows, but they knew where they were.\par
\'93Do you have any plan or are we just going to let them all out en masse?\'94 Melanie asked as they walked across the field. Kevin had the flashlight on so they could see where they were stepping.\par
\'93The only idea that came to my mind was to find my double, bonobo number one,\'94 Kevin said. \'93Unlike me, he\'92s a leader. If I can make him understand, maybe he\'92ll take the others.\'94 Kevin shrugged. \'93Can you think of a better idea?\'94\par
\'93Not at the moment,\'94 Melanie said.\par
The cages were all lined up in a long row. The smell was rank since some of the animals had been in their tiny prisons for more than twenty-four hours. As Kevin and Melanie walked along, Kevin shined the light in each enclosure. The animals awoke immediately. Some backed against the rear wall, trying to shield themselves from the glare. Others stood their ground obstinately, their eyes flashing red.\par
\'93How are you going to recognize him?\'94 Melanie asked.\par
\'93I wish I could count on seeing my watch,\'94 Kevin said. \'93But the chances of that are slim. I suppose it\'92s up to recognizing that awful scar he has.\'94\par
\'93It\'92s rather ironic that he and Siegfried have almost the same scar,\'94 Melanie said.\par
\'93Don\'92t even mention that man\'92s name,\'94 Kevin said. \'93My gosh, look!\'94 The light illuminated bonobo number one\'92s frightfully scarred face. He stared back defiantly.\par
\'93It\'92s him,\'94 Melanie cried.\par
\'93Bada,\'94 Kevin said. He patted his chest as the bonobo females had done when he, Melanie, and Candace had first been brought to the cave.\par
Bonobo number one tilted his head and the skin between his eye furrowed.\par
\'93Bada,\'94 Kevin repeated.\par
Slowly, the bonobo raised his hand and patted his chest. Then he said \'93bada\'94 as clearly as Kevin had.\par
Kevin looked at Melanie. They were both shocked. Although they had tentatively conversed with Arthur, it had been in such a different context, they\'92d never been entirely sure they were actually communicating. This was different.\par
\'93Atah,\'94 Kevin said. It was a word they\'92d heard frequently starting from the moment bonobo number one had yelled it when they\'92d first encountered him. They thought it meant \'93come.\'94\par
Bonobo number one didn\'92t respond.\par
Kevin repeated the word then looked at Melanie. \'93I don\'92t know what else to say.\'94\par
\'93Neither do I,\'94 Melanie said. \'93Let\'92s go for it and open the door. Maybe he\'92ll respond then. I mean it is hard for him to \'91come\'92 when he\'92s locked up.\'94\par
\'93Good point,\'94 Jack said. He stepped around Melanie to reach back along the right side of the cage. With trepidation, Kevin released the latch and opened the door.\par
Kevin and Melanie stepped back. Kevin directed the flashlight toward the ground rather than shine it in the animal\'92s face. Bonobo number one emerged slowly and stood up to his full height. He looked to his left and then to his right before redirecting his attention at the two humans.\par
\'93Atah,\'94 Kevin said again while backing up. Melanie stayed in step.\par
Bonobo number one started forward, stretching as he walked like an athlete warming up.\par
Kevin turned his body around so he could walk easier. He repeated \'93atah\'94 several more times. The animal\'92s facial expression didn\'92t change as he followed.\par
Kevin led to the bridge and climbed up on it. He again repeated \'93atah.\'94\par
Bonobo number one hesitantly climbed onto the concrete stanchion. Kevin backed up until he was standing in the middle of the span. The bonobo came out onto the bridge warily. He glanced frequently from side to side.\par
Kevin then tried something they\'92d not tested on Arthur. Kevin strung bonobo words together. He used \'93sta,\'94 from the episode when bonobo number one tried to give the dead monkey to Candace. He used \'93zit,\'94 which bonobo number one had used to get them to go to the cave. And finally he used \'93arak,\'94 which they were quite sure meant \'93away.\'94\par
\'93Sta zit arak,\'94 Kevin said. He opened his fingers and swept his hand away from his chest, the gesture that Candace had described in the operating room. Kevin hoped his amalgamated sentence said: \'93You go away.\'94\par
After repeating the phrase once again, Kevin pointed to the northeast in the direction of the limitless rain forest.\par
Bonobo number one rose up on the balls of his feet and looked over Kevin\'92s shoulder at the dark wall of mainland jungle. He then looked back in the direction of the cages. Spreading his arms he vocalized a series of sounds Kevin and Melanie had not heard, or at least not associated with any specific activity.\par
\'93What\'92s he doing?\'94 Kevin asked. At that point the animal was facing away from him.\par
\'93I could be wrong,\'94 Melanie said, \'93but I think he\'92s making reference to his people.\'94\par
\'93My god!\'94 Kevin said. \'93I think he might have understood my meaning. Let\'92s let more of the animals out.\'94\par
Kevin walked forward. The bonobo sensed his movement and turned to face him. Kevin hesitated. The bridge was about ten feet wide, and Kevin was concerned about coming too close. He remembered all too well how easy it had been for the bonobo to pick him up and throw him like a rag doll.\par
Kevin stared into the animal\'92s face to try to see any emotion, but he couldn\'92t. All he got was a repeat of the uncanny sensation that he was looking into an evolutionary mirror.\par
\'93What\'92s the matter?\'94 Melanie asked.\par
\'93He\'92s scary,\'94 Kevin admitted. \'93I don\'92t know whether to pass him or not.\'94\par
\'93Please, not another Mexican standoff,\'94 Melanie said. \'93We don\'92t have much time.\'94\par
\'93Okay,\'94 Kevin said. He took a breath and inched around the animal while teetering on the edge. The bonobo watched him but didn\'92t move.\par
\'93This is so nerve wracking!\'94 Kevin complained when he climbed down from the bridge.\par
\'93Do we want him to stay here?\'94 Melanie asked.\par
Kevin scratched his head. \'93I don\'92t know. He might be a lure to get the others over here, but then again, maybe he should come back with us.\'94\par
\'93Why don\'92t we just start walking?\'94 Melanie said. \'93We\'92ll let him decide.\'94\par
Melanie and Kevin set out for the animal cages. They were pleased when bonobo number one immediately climbed from the bridge and followed.\par
They walked quickly, conscious that Candace and the other people were waiting. When they got to the cages they didn\'92t hesitate. Kevin opened the door on the first cage while Melanie did the second.\par
The animals emerged quickly and immediately exchanged words with bonobo number one. Kevin and Melanie went to the next two cages.\par
Within only a few minutes, there was a dozen animals milling about, vocalizing and stretching.\par
\'93It\'92s working,\'94 Kevin said. \'93I\'92m sure of it. If they were just going to run off in the forest here on the island, they would have already done so. I think they all know they have to leave.\'94\par
\'93Maybe I should get Candace and our new friends,\'94 Melanie said. \'93They should witness this, and they can help speed things up.\'94\par
\'93Good idea,\'94 Kevin said. He looked at the long row of cages. He knew there were over seventy.\par
Melanie ran off into the night while Kevin went to the next cage. He noticed that bonobo number one stayed nearby to greet each newly freed animal.\par
By the time Kevin had released a half dozen more animals, the humans arrived. At first, they were intimidated by the creatures and didn\'92t know how to act. The animals ignored them except for Warren whom they gave a wide berth. Warren had brought the assault rifle, which Kevin guessed reminded the animals of the dart gun.\par
\'93They are so quiet,\'94 Laurie said. \'93It\'92s spooky.\'94\par
\'93They\'92re depressed,\'94 Kevin said. \'93It could be from the tranquilizer or from having been imprisoned. But don\'92t go too close. They might be quiet, but they are very strong.\'94\par
\'93What can we do to help?\'94 Candace asked.\par
\'93Just open the cage doors,\'94 Kevin said.\par
With seven people working, it took only a few minutes to get all the cages open. As soon as the last animal had emerged into the night, Kevin motioned for everyone to start toward the bridge.\par
Bonobo number one, who\'92d been shadowing Kevin, clapped his hands loudly just as he\'92d done when Kevin and the women had first come upon him in the cul-de-sac of the marshy field. Then he vocalized raucously before starting after the humans. Immediately the rest of the bonobos quietly followed.\par
The seven humans led the seventy-one transgenic bonobos in a procession across the clearing to the bridge of their freedom. Arriving at the span, the humans stepped aside. Bonobo number one stopped at the cement stanchion.\par
\'93Sta zit arak,\'94 Kevin repeated as he spread his fingers and swept his hand away from his chest for the final time. Then he pointed toward the unexplored African interior.\par
Bonobo number one bowed his head momentarily before leaping up on top of the stanchion. Looking out over his people, he vocalized for a final time before turning his back on Isla Francesca and crossing the bridge to the mainland. The mass of the bonobos silently followed.\par
\'93It\'92s like watching the Exodus,\'94 Jack quipped.\par
\'93Don\'92t be blasphemous,\'94 Laurie teased. But, as with all teasing, there was an element of truth. She was truly awed by the spectacle.\par
As if by magic the animals melted into the dark jungle without a sound. One minute they were a restive crowd milling about the base of the bridge; the next minute they were gone like water soaking into a sponge.\par
The humans didn\'92t move or talk for a moment. Finally, Kevin broke the silence. \'93They did it, and I\'92m pleased,\'94 he said. \'93Thank you all for helping. Maybe now I can come to terms with what I did in creating them.\'94 He stepped up to the bridge and pressed the red button. With a whine, the bridge retracted.\par
The group turned away from the stanchion and began to trudge back to the pirogue.\par
\'93That was one of the strangest pageants I\'92ve ever seen,\'94 Jack said.\par
Halfway to the canoe, Melanie suddenly stopped and cried: \'93Oh, no! Look!\'94\par
Everyone\'92s eyes darted across the river in the direction she was pointing. Headlight beams from several vehicles could be intermittently seen through the foliage. The vehicles were descending the track leading to the bridge mechanism.\par
\'93We can\'92t get to the boat!\'94 Warren blurted. \'93They\'92ll see us.\'94\par
\'93We can\'92t stay here, either,\'94 Jack said.\par
\'93Back to the cages!\'94 Kevin cried.\par
They all turned and ran toward the bulwark of the jungle. The moment they ducked behind the cages, the headlight beams swept across the clearing as the vehicles turned to the west. The vehicles stopped, but the headlights stayed on and the engines kept running.\par
\'93It\'92s a group of Equatoguinean soldiers,\'94 Kevin said.\par
\'93And Siegfried,\'94 Melanie said. \'93I can recognize him anywhere. And that\'92s Cameron McIvers\'92s patrol car.\'94\par
A searchlight snapped on. Its high-intensity light played along the row of cages then swept the bank of the river. It quickly found the canoe.\par
Even fifty yards away, they could hear excited voices responding to the discovery of the boat.\par
\'93This is not good,\'94 Jack said. \'93They know we\'92re here.\'94\par
A sudden and sustained burst of heavy gunfire shattered the tranquility of the night.\par
\'93What on earth are they shooting at?\'94 Laurie asked.\par
\'93I\'92m afraid they\'92re destroying our boat,\'94 Jack said. \'93I suppose that\'92s bad news for my deposit.\'94\par
\'93This is no time for humor,\'94 Laurie complained.\par
An explosion rocked the night air, and a fireball briefly illuminated the soldiers. \'93That must have been the gas tank,\'94 Kevin said. \'93So much for our transportation.\'94\par
A few minutes later, the searchlight went out. Then the first vehicle made a U-turn and disappeared back up the track leading to Cogo.\par
\'93Does anybody have an idea what\'92s happening?\'94 Jack asked.\par
\'93My guess is Siegfried and Cameron are going back to town,\'94 Melanie said. \'93Knowing we\'92re on the island, they probably feel pretty confident.\'94\par
The headlights on the second vehicle suddenly went out, thrusting the entire area into darkness. Even the moonlight was meager since the moon had sunk low in the western sky.\par
\'93I preferred it when we had some idea where they were and what they were doing,\'94 Warren said.\par
\'93How big is this island?\'94 Jack asked.\par
\'93About six miles long and two wide,\'94 Kevin said. \'93But\~.\~.\~.\'94\par
\'93They\'92re making a fire,\'94 Warren said, interrupting Kevin.\par
A dot of golden light illuminated part of the bridge mechanism, then flared up into a campfire. The ghostly figures of the soldiers could be seen moving in the periphery of the light.\par
\'93Isn\'92t that nice,\'94 Jack said. \'93Looks like they\'92re making themselves at home.\'94\par
\'93What are we going to do?\'94 Laurie questioned despairingly.\par
\'93We don\'92t have a lot of choice with them sitting at the base of the bridge,\'94 Warren said. \'93I count six of them.\'94\par
\'93Let\'92s hope they\'92re not planning on coming over here,\'94 Jack said.\par
\'93They won\'92t come until dawn,\'94 Kevin said. \'93There\'92s no way they\'92d come over here in the dark. Besides, there\'92s no need. They don\'92t expect us to be going anywhere.\'94\par
\'93What about swimming across that channel?\'94 Jack said. \'93It\'92s only about thirty or forty feet wide and there\'92s no current to speak of.\'94\par
\'93I\'92m not a good swimmer,\'94 Warren said nervously. \'93I told you that.\'94\par
\'93This whole area is also infested with crocodiles,\'94 Kevin said.\par
\'93Oh, God!\'94 Laurie said. \'93Now he tells us.\'94\par
\'93But, listen! We don\'92t have to swim,\'94 Kevin said. \'93At least, I don\'92t think so. The boat that Melanie, Candace, and I used to get here is most likely where we left it, and it\'92s big enough for all of us.\'94\par
\'93Fantastic!\'94 Jack said. \'93Where is it?\'94\par
\'93I\'92m afraid it\'92s going to require a little hike,\'94 Kevin said. \'93It\'92s a little more than a mile, but at least there\'92s a freshly cleared trail.\'94\par
\'93Sounds like a walk in the park,\'94 Jack said.\par
\'93What time is it?\'94 Kevin asked.\par
\'93Three-twenty,\'94 Warren said.\par
\'93Then we only have approximately an hour and a half before daylight,\'94 Kevin said. \'93We\'92d better start now.\'94\par
\par
\pard\qj What Jack had facetiously labeled a walk in the park turned out to be one of the most harrowing experiences that any of them had ever had. Unwilling to use the flashlights for the first two to three hundred yards, they had proceeded by a process that could only be termed the blind leading the blind. The interior of the jungle had been entirely devoid of light. It was so utterly dark it had been difficult for anyone to even know whether their eyes were open or not.\par
\pard\fi283\qj Kevin had gone first to feel his way along the ground, making frequent wrong choices that required backtracking to find the trail. Knowing what kind of creatures inhabited the forest, Kevin held his breath each time he extended his hand or his foot into the blackness.\par
Behind Kevin, the others had aligned themselves in snakelike single file, each holding on to the unseen figure ahead. Jack had tried to make light of the situation, but after a time even his usually resourceful flippancy failed him. From then on, they were all victims of their own fears as the nocturnal creatures chattered, chirped, bellowed, twittered, and occasionally screamed around them.\par
When they finally deemed it safe to use the flashlights, they made better progress. At the same time, they shuddered when they saw the number of snakes and insects that they encountered, knowing that prior to the use of the flashlights they had been passing these same creatures unawares.\par
By the time they reached the marshy fields around Lago Hippo, the eastern horizon was faintly beginning to lighten. Leaving the darkness of the forest, they mistakenly believed the worst was behind them. But it wasn\'92t the case. The hippopotami were all out of the water grazing. The animals looked enormous in the predawn twilight.\par
\'93They may not look it but they are very dangerous,\'94 Kevin warned. \'93More humans are killed by them than you\'92d think.\'94\par
The group took a circuitous route to give the hippopotami wide berth. But as they neared the reeds where they hoped the small canoe was still hidden, they had to pass close by two particularly large hippos. The animals seemed to regard them sleepily until without warning they charged.\par
Luckily, they charged for the lake with a huge amount of commotion and crashing noise. Each multi-ton animal created a new wide trail through the reeds to the water. For a moment, everyone\'92s heart fluttered in his chest.\par
It took a few minutes for everyone to recover before pushing on. The sky was now progressively brightening, and they knew they had no time to lose. The short hike had taken much more time than they had anticipated.\par
\'93Thank God it\'92s still here,\'94 Kevin said when he separated the reeds and found the small canoe. Even the Styrofoam food chest was still in place.\par
But reaching the canoe posed another problem. It was quickly decided the boat was too small and too dangerous to carry seven people. After a difficult discussion, it was decided that Jack and Warren would stay in the reeds to wait for Kevin to bring the small canoe back.\par
Waiting was hell. Not only did the sky continue to get lighter and lighter, presaging imminent dawn and the possible appearance of the soldiers, but there was always the worry that the motorized canoe had disappeared. Jack and Warren nervously alternated between looking at each other and their watches, while fighting off clouds of insatiable insects. And on top of everything else, their exhaustion was total.\par
Just when they were thinking that something terrible had happened to the others, Kevin appeared at the edge of the reeds like a mirage and silently paddled in.\par
Warren scrambled into the canoe followed by Jack.\par
\'93The power boat\'92s okay?\'94 Jack asked anxiously.\par
\'93At least it was there,\'94 Kevin said. \'93I didn\'92t try to start the engine.\'94\par
They backed out of the reeds and started for the Rio Diviso. Unfortunately, there were lots of hippos and even a few crocodiles forcing them to paddle twice the usual distance just to keep clear.\par
Before they slipped into the foliage hiding the mouth of the jungle-lined river they caught a glimpse of some soldiers entering the clearing in the distance.\par
\'93Do you think they saw us?\'94 Jack asked from his position in the bow.\par
\'93There\'92s no way to know,\'94 Kevin said.\par
\'93We\'92re getting out of here by the skin of our teeth,\'94 Jack said.\par
The waiting was as hard on the women as it had been on Jack and Warren. When the small canoe pulled alongside, there were literal tears of relief.\par
The final worry was the outboard motor. Jack agreed to attend to it because of his experience with similar engines as a teenager. While he checked it over, the others paddled the heavy canoe out of the reeds into the open water.\par
Jack pumped the gas, then with a little prayer, pulled the cord.\par
The engine sputtered and caught. It was loud in the morning stillness. Jack looked at Laurie. She smiled and gave him the thumbs-up sign.\par
Jack put the motor in gear, gave it a full throttle, and steered directly south, where they could see Gabon as a line of green along the horizon.\par
\par
\par
\pard\qj\fs32 EPILOGUE\par
\pard\fi283\qj\fs24\par
\pard\qr MARCH 18, 1997\par
3:45 P.M.\par
NEW YORK CITY\par
\pard\fi283\qj\par
\pard\qj LOU Soldano glanced at his watch as he flashed his police badge to get him into the Customs area of the international arrivals building at Kennedy Airport. He\'92d hit more traffic than he\'92d expected in the midtown tunnel, and hoped he was not too late to greet the returning world travelers.\par
\pard\fi283\qj Going up to one of the skycaps, he asked which carousel was Air France.\par
\'93Way down the end, brother,\'94 the skycap said with a wave of his hand.\par
\i Just my luck\i0 , thought Lou as he broke into a slow jog. After a short distance he slowed, and for the one millionth time vowed to stop smoking.\par
As he got closer, it was easy to see which carousel he was looking for. Air France in block letters showed on a monitor. Around it, the people were four deep.\par
Lou made a half circuit before seeing the group. Even though they were facing away, he could recognize Laurie\'92s hair.\par
He insinuated himself between other passengers and gave Laurie\'92s arm a squeeze. She turned around indignantly but quickly recognized him. Then she gave him a hug so fierce, his face turned red.\par
\'93Okay, okay, I give up,\'94 Lou managed. He laughed.\par
Laurie let him go so that he could give Jack and Warren a handshake. Lou gave Natalie a peck on the cheek.\par
\'93So, you guys have a good trip, or what?\'94 Lou questioned. It was apparent he was all keyed up.\par
Jack shrugged and looked at Laurie. \'93It was okay,\'94 he said noncommittally.\par
\'93Yeah, it was okay,\'94 Laurie agreed. \'93The trouble was nothing happened.\'94\par
\'93Really?\'94 Lou said. \'93I\'92m surprised. You know, being Africa and all. I haven\'92t been there, but I\'92ve heard.\'94\par
\'93What have you heard, man?\'94 Warren asked.\par
\'93Well, there\'92s lots of animals,\'94 Lou said.\par
\'93Is that it?\'94 Natalie asked.\par
Lou shrugged embarrassingly. \'93I guess. Animals and the Ebola virus. But like I said, I\'92ve never been there.\'94\par
Jack laughed, and when he did, so did all the others.\par
\'93What\'92s going on here?\'94 Lou said. \'93Are you guys pulling my leg?\'94\par
\'93I\'92m afraid so,\'94 Laurie said. \'93We had a fabulous trip! The first part was a little harrowing, but we managed to survive that, and once we got to Gabon, we had a ball.\'94\par
\'93Did you see any animals?\'94 Lou asked.\par
\'93More than you could imagine,\'94 Laurie said.\par
\'93There, see, that\'92s what everybody says,\'94 Lou remarked. \'93Maybe someday I\'92ll go over there myself.\'94\par
The luggage came, and they hoisted it onto their shoulders. They breezed through Customs and passed through the terminal. Lou\'92s unmarked car was at the curb.\par
\'93One of the few perks,\'94 he explained.\par
They put the luggage in the trunk, and climbed in. Laurie sat next to Lou. Lou drove out of the airport, and they were immediately bogged down in traffic.\par
\'93How about you?\'94 Laurie asked. \'93Have you been making any headway back here?\'94\par
\'93I was afraid you weren\'92t going to ask,\'94 Lou said. \'93Things have been going down like you wouldn\'92t believe. It was that Spoletto Funeral Home that was the gold mine. Right now, everybody is lining up to plea-bargain. I even got an indictment on Vinnie Dominick.\'94\par
\'93That\'92s fantastic,\'94 Laurie said. \'93What about that awful pig, Angelo Facciolo?\'94\par
\'93He\'92s still in the slammer,\'94 Lou said. \'93We have him nailed on stealing Franconi\'92s body. I know it\'92s not much, but remember Al Capone was reeled in on tax evasion.\'94\par
\'93What about the mole in the medical examiner\'92s office?\'94 Laurie said.\par
\'93Solved,\'94 Lou said. \'93In fact, that\'92s how we have Angelo nailed. Vinnie Amendola has agreed to testify.\'94\par
\'93So, it was Vinnie!\'94 Laurie said with a mixture of vindication and regret.\par
\'93No wonder he\'92s been acting so weird,\'94 Jack said from the backseat.\par
\'93There was one unexpected twist,\'94 Lou said. \'93There was someone else mixed up in all this who has taken us by surprise. He\'92s apparently out of the country at the moment. When he comes back into the country, he\'92s going to be arrested for murder of a teenager by the name of Cindy Carlson over in Jersey. We believe Franco Ponti and Angelo Facciolo did the actual killing, but it was at this guy\'92s behest. His name is Dr. Raymond Lyons. Do either of you guys know him?\'94\par
\'93Never heard of him,\'94 Jack said.\par
\'93Nor I,\'94 Laurie said.\par
\'93Well, he had something to do with that organ transplant stuff you people were so interested in,\'94 Lou said. \'93But later for that. Right now I\'92d like to hear about the first part of your trip: the harrowing part.\'94\par
\'93For that you\'92ll have to buy us dinner,\'94 Laurie said. \'93It\'92s kind of a long story.\'94\par
\par
\par
\pard\qj\fs32 Glossary\par
\pard\fi283\qj\fs24\par
\pard\sa120\qj\scaps bonobo\scaps0 : An anthropoid ape classified as a species in 1933. Related to chimpanzees, they occasionally walk upright and are found only in a localized area of Zaire. The estimated population is less than twenty thousand.\par
\scaps centromere\scaps0 : A specialized portion of a chromosome that plays an important role in the reduplication of the chromosome during cellular division.\par
\scaps chimera\scaps0 : A combination of a lion, a goat, and a serpent in Greek mythology. In literature, a chimera is a creation of the imagination: an impossible mixture. In biology, a chimera is an organism that contains genetically distinct cell types. In genetics, a chimera is an entity containing a mixture of DNA from different sources.\par
\scaps chromosome\scaps0 : An elongated structure in the nucleus of a cell that contains DNA. In humans and anthropoid apes, there are twenty-three pairs of chromosomes for a total of forty-six.\par
\scaps cicatrix\scaps0 : A scar.\par
\scaps crossing over\scaps0 : The exchange of parts of chromosomes between chromosome pairs during meiosis.\par
\scaps dna\scaps0 : The acronym for deoxyribonucleic acid, which encodes genetic information.\par
\scaps endothelialization\scaps0 : The healing of the inner surface of blood vessels by the cells that cover such surfaces.\par
\scaps forensic pathology\scaps0 : A branch of pathology that relates pathological science with civil and criminal law.\par
\scaps gene\scaps0 : A functional unit of heredity that is composed of a sequence of DNA located at a specific locus or place on the chromosome.\par
\scaps genome\scaps0 : The complete complement of genes of an organism. In humans, the genome contains approximately one hundred thousand genes.\par
\scaps granuloma\scaps0 : A growth of a mixture of specialized cells as a result of chronic inflammation.\par
\scaps histocompatibility\scaps0 : A state when two or more organisms can share organs or tissue (e.g., identical twins).\par
\scaps homologous chromosome\scaps0 : Chromosomes that are similar with respect to their genes and visible structure: e.g., each chromosome of a chromosome pair.\par
\scaps homologous transposition\scaps0 : The exchange of corresponding portions of DNA between homologous chromosomes.\par
\scaps lymphokine\scaps0 : An immunologically active hormone produced by certain immune cells called lymphocytes.\par
\scaps meiosis\scaps0 : A special type of cellular division that occurs during the creation of sex cells (eggs and sperm), resulting in each sex cell having half the usual number of chromosomes. In humans, each sex cell has twenty-three chromosomes.\par
\scaps mitochondria\scaps0 : Self-replicating entities in cells that produce energy.\par
\scaps mitochondrial dna\scaps0 : DNA necessary for mitochondrial replication. It is inherited only through the maternal line.\par
\scaps merozoite\scaps0 : A stage in the life cycle of some parasites that enables the organism to disperse and infect additional cells within the host.\par
\scaps parasite\scaps0 : An organism that lives on or in another organism (or host). A parasite does not help the host; in fact, it typically harms the host.\par
\scaps parasitology\scaps0 : A branch of biology dealing with parasites.\par
\scaps pathology\scaps0 : A branch of medical science involving the cause, the process, the anatomic effects, and the consequence of disease.\par
\scaps recombinant dna\scaps0 : A composite molecule of DNA that has been formed in the laboratory with DNA from separate sources.\par
\scaps recombinant dna technology\scaps0 : The applied science of separating, producing, and recombining segments of DNA or genes.\par
\scaps ribosomal proteins\scaps0 : The proteins that form a ribosome. The DNA that codes for these proteins is species specific and is used to identify the species of tissue (e.g., to determine if blood is human blood or blood of a particular species of animal).\par
\scaps ribosome\scaps0 : A cellular entity responsible for manufacturing all cellular protein.\par
\scaps transgenic\scaps0 : An organism whose genome contains one or more genes from another species (e.g., pigs containing human genes to facilitate human reception of pig heart valves).\par
\scaps vaccine\scaps0 : A substance given to an individual to produce resistance to disease or infection.\par
\scaps xenograft\scaps0 : An organ or tissue taken from one species and transplanted into another species. Generally, a xenograft refers to an animal organ or tissue dial is transplanted into a human (e.g., a pig heart valve).\par
}
 