Roses Are Red [181-142-181-4.7]

By: James Patterson

Category: Fiction Suspense

Synopsis:

The bank robber handed the phone to Betsy, but she knew the exact words
the manager would hear, and who the speaker was.

"Betsy, it's Steve.  There's a man here in our house.  He has a gun
pointed at me.  He says that unless the woman in your office leaves the
bank with the money by eight-ten exactly, Tommy, Anna, and I will be
killed.

"It's eight-o-four."

The phone line suddenly went dead.  Her husband's voice was gone.

A series of meticulously planned bank robberies ends in murder, and
Alex Cross must pit his wits against the bizarre and sadistic
mastermind behind the crimes.  Although torn between dedication to his
job and commitment to his family, Cross cannot ignore the case, despite
the risks he knows will come with hunting down a killer and the
heartbreaking cost.

|ames Patterson's new bestseller takes us from deep inside the crazy
world of a psychopath's masquerade right to the heart of fiction's most
brilliant detective.  Alex Cross is back in an explosive tale where
mind games lead to violence, and the slightest mistake will be punished
with death.


Last printing: 08/25/02
`>/:,' Also by James Patterson

Pop Goes the Weasel

Cat and Mouse

Cradle and All

When the Wind Blows

Miracle on the 17th Green (with Peter dejonge)

JAJWES

PATTERSON ROSES ARE RED

HEADLINE FEATURE



The right of James Patterson to be identified as the Author of the Work
has been asserted by him in accordance with the

Copyright, Designs and Patents Act 1988.

First published in Great Britain in 2000 by HEADLINE BOOK PUBLISHING

A HEADLINE FEATURE book 10 987654321

All rights reserved.  No part of this publication may be reproduced,
stored in a retrieval system, or transmitted,

in any form or by any means without the prior written permission of the
publisher, nor be otherwise circulated in any form of binding or cover
other than that in which it is published and without a similar
condition being imposed on the subsequent purchaser.

All characters in this publication are fictitious and any resemblance
to real persons, living or dead,

is purely coincidental.

British Library Cataloguing in Publication Data

Patterson, James, 1947-Roses are red.  Suspense fiction I. Title

813.5'4[F]

ISBN: 0-5371- 7472 6346 9 (hardback) IODN 0 7173 7136 3 (Uadc paperbaek)

Typeset by Letterpart Ltd Reigate, Surrey

Printed and bound in Great Britain by Clays Ltd, St.  Ives plc

HEADLINE BOOK PUBLISHING

A division of Hodder Headline

338 Euston Road

London NW1 3BH

www.headline.co.uk www.hodderheadline.com

ROSES ARE RED

Roses are Red is for Charles and Isabelle; Lorraine and OB; Maryellen
and Andrew; Carole, Jimmy, Brigid and Meredith; Theresa and Rick; Suzie
and Jack; Artie, Harriette, Richard, Nancy, Gideon and Adam all the
families that inspire the Cross family.

Prologue

Ashes, Ashes

Chapter I

Brianne Parker didn't look like a bank robber or a murderer her
pleasantly plump baby face fooled everyone.  But she knew that she was
ready to kill if she had to this morning.  She would find out for sure
at ten minutes past eight.

The twenty-four-year-old woman wore khakis, a powder-blue University of
Maryland windbreaker, and scuffed white Nike sneakers.  None of the
early-morning commuters noticed her as she walked from her dented white
Acura to a thick stand of evergreen trees where she hid.

She was outside the Citibank in Silver Spring, Maryland, at a little
before eight.  The branch was scheduled to open in about ninety
seconds.  She knew from her talks with the Mastermind that it was a
freestanding bank with two drive-through lanes.  It was surrounded by
what he called big-box stores: Target, PET sMART Home Depot, Circuit
City.

At eight o'clock on the dot, Brianne approached the bank from her
hiding place in the evergreens under a colorful billboard obnoxiously
offering McDonald's breakfast to the public.  From that angle she
couldn't be seen by the female teller who was just opening the glass
front door and had momentarily stepped outside.

A few strides from the teller, she slipped on a rubbery President
Clinton mask, one of the most popular masks in America and probably the
one hardest to trace.  She knew the bank teller's name, and she spoke
it clearly as she pulled out her gun and pressed it against the small
of the woman's back.

"Inside, Ms Jeanne Galetta.  Then turn around and lock the front door
again.  We're going to see your boss, Mrs.  Buccieri."

Her short speech at the entrance to the bank was scripted, word for
word, even the pauses.  The Mastermind said it was crucial that a bank
robbery proceed in a specific order, almost by rote.

"I don't want to kill you, Jeanne.  But I will if you don't do
everything I say, when I say it.  It's your turn to talk now, darling.
Do you understand what I've just told you so far?"

Jeanne Galetta nodded her head of short brown hair so vigorously that
her wire-rimmed glasses nearly fell off.  "Yes I do.  Please don't hurt
me!"  she gasped.  She was in her late twenties, attractive in a
suburban sort of way; but her blue polyester pantsuit and sensible,
stacked-heeled shoes made her look older.

"The manager's office.  Now, Ms Jeanne.  If I'm not out of here in
eight minutes, you will die.  I'm serious.  If I'm not out of here in
eight minutes, you and Mrs.  Buccieri die.  Don't think I won't do it
because I'm a woman.  I will shoot you both like dogs."

Chapter II

She liked this aura of power and she really liked the new respect she
was suddenly getting at the bank.  As she followed the trembling teller
past two Diebold ATMs and then through the meeter-greeter area of the
lobby, Brianne thought about the precious seconds she had already
taken.  The Mastermind had been explicit about the tight schedule for
the robbery.  He had repeated over and over that everything depended on
perfect execution.

Minutes matter, Brianne.

Seconds matter, Brianne.

It even matters that it's Citibank we've chosen to hit today,
Brianne.

The robbery had to be exact, precise, perfect.  She got it, she got it.
The Mastermind had planned it on what he called 'a numerical scale of
9.9999 out of 10."

With the heel of her left hand, Brianne shoved the teller into the
manager's office.  She heard the low hum of a computer coming from
inside.  Then she saw Betsy Buccieri sitting behind her big,
executive-style desk.

"You open up your safe every morning at five past eight, so open it for
me!"  she screamed at the manager, who was wide-eyed with surprise and
fear.  "Open it.  Now!"

"I can't open the vault," Mrs.  Buccieri protested.  "The vault is
automatically opened by a computer signal from the main office in
Manhattan.  It never happens at the same time."

The bank robber pointed to her own left ear.  She signaled with her
finger for Mrs.  Betsy Buccieri to listen.  To listen to what, though?
"Five four three two ..."  Brianne said.  Then she reached for the
phone on the manager's desk.  It rang.  Perfect timing.

"It's for you," Brianne said, her voice slightly muffled by the
rubbery

President Clinton mask.  "You listen carefully."

She handed the phone to Mrs.  Buccieri, but she knew the exact words
the bank manager would hear, and who the speaker was.

The scariest voice of all for the bank manager to hear was not that of
the Mastermind making very real, but idle-sounding threats, but someone
even better.  Scarier.

"Betsy, it's Steve.  There's a man here in our house.  He has a gun
pointed at me.  He says that unless the woman in your office leaves the
bank with the money by eight-ten exactly, Tommy, Anna, and I will be
killed.

"It's eight-o-four."

The phone line suddenly went dead.  Her husband's voice was gone.

"Steve?  Steve!"  Tears flowed into Betsy Buccieri's eyes and rolled
down her cheeks.  She stared at the masked woman and couldn't believe
this was happening.  "Don't hurt them.  Please.  I'll open the vault
for you.  I'll do it now.  Don't hurt anyone."

Brianne repeated the message the bank manager had already heard.
"Eight-ten exactly.  Not one second later.  And no stupid bank tricks.
No silent alarms.  No dye packs."

"Follow me.  No alarms, "Betsy Buccieri promised.  She almost couldn't
think.  Steve, Tommy, Anna.  The names rang loudly in her head.

They arrived at the door of the bank's Mosler vault.  It was 8:05.

"Open the door, Betsy.  We are on the clock.  We're losing time.  Your
family is losing time.  Steve, Anna, little Tommy could die."

It took a little less than two minutes for Betsy Buccieri to get into
the vault, which was a polished steel thing of beauty with pistons like
a locomotive.  Stacks of money were plainly visible on nearly all the
shelves more money than Brianne had ever seen in her life.  She snapped
open two canvas duffel bags and began filling them with the cash.  Mrs.
Buccieri and Jeanne Galetta watched her take the money in silence. She
liked seeing the fear and respect for her on their faces.

As she'd been instructed to, Brianne counted off the minutes as she
filled the duffel bags.  "Eight-o-seven ... eight-o-eight.  Finally she
was finished with her part in the vault.

"I'm locking you both inside the vault.  Don't say one word or I'll
shoot you, then lock your dead bodies up."

She hoisted the black duffel bags.

"Don't hurt my husband or my baby, "Betsy Buccieri begged.  We did what
you '

Brianne slammed the heavy metal door on Betsy Buccieri's desperate
plea.

She was running late.  She walked across the lobby, unlocked the front
door with plastic-gloved hands, and went outside.  She yanked her
President Clinton mask from her sweaty face.  She felt like running as
fast as she could to her car, but she walked calmly, as if she didn't
have a care in the world on this fine spring morning.  She was tempted
to pull out her six-shooter and put a hole into the big Egg McShit
staring down on her.  Yeah, she had an attitude, all right.

When she got to the Acura, she checked her watch: Fifty-two seconds
past 8:10.  And counting.  She was late but that was the way it was
supposed to be.  She smiled.

She didn't call Errol at the Buccieri house where Steve, Tommy and the
nanny, Anna, were being held.  She didn't tell him she had the money,
and she was safely in the Acura.

She was told not to by the Mastermind.

The hostages were supposed to die.

Book One

The Robbery-Murders

Chapter One

There's an old saying that I've learned to believe in my time as a
detective: Don't think there are no crocodiles because the water is
calm.

The water was certainly lovely and calm that night.  My young and
irrepressible daughter, Jannie, had Rosie the cat up on her hind legs
and she was holding Rosie's front paws in her hands.  She and la chatte
rouge were dancing as they often do.

"Roses are red, violets are blue,"Jannie sang in a sweet lilting voice.
It was a moment and an image I wouldn't forget.  Friends, relatives,
and neighbors had begun to arrive for the christening party at our
house on Fifth Street.  I was in a hugely celebratory mood.

Nana Mama had prepared an amazing meal for the special occasion.  There
was cilantro-marinated shrimp, roasted mussels, fresh ham, Vidalia
onions, and summer squashes.  The aroma of chicken with garlic, pork
ribs, and four kinds of homemade bread filled the air.  I'd even made
my specialty that night, my contribution, a creamy cheesecake with
fresh raspberries on top.

One of Nana's refrigerator notes was posted on the door of the GE.  It
read.  "There is an incredible amount of magic and feistiness in black
men that nobody has been able to wipe out.  But everybody has tried."
-Toni Morrison."  I smiled at the magic and feistiness of my
eighty-something-year-old grandmother.

This was so good.  Jannie, Damon, little Alex and I were greeting
everybody on the front porch as they arrived.  Alex was in my arms, and
he was a very social little baby.  He had happy smiles for everyone,
even for my partner, John Sampson, who can scare little kids at first,
because he's mammoth and scary.

"The boy obviously likes to party," Sampson observed and grinned
broadly.

Alex grinned right back at Two-John, who is six nine and about two
hundred fifty pounds.

Sampson reached out and took the baby from me.  Alex nearly disappeared
in his hands, which are the size of catcher's mitts.  Then Sampson
laughed and began to talk to the baby in total gibberish.

Christine appeared from the kitchen.  She joined the three of us.  So
far, she and Alex Jr were living apart from us.  We hoped they would
come join Nana, Damon, Jannie and me in this house.  Just one big
family.  I wanted Christine as my wife, not just a girlfriend.  I
wanted to wake little Alex in the mornings, then put him to sleep at
night.

'I'm going to walk around the party with little Alex in my arms.
Shamelessly use him to pick up pretty women," Sampson said.  He walked
off with Alex cradled in his arms.

"You think he'll ever get married?"  Christine asked.

"Little Alex?  The boy?  Sure he will."

"No, your partner in crime, John Sampson.  Will he ever get married,
settle down?"  It didn't sound like it bothered her that we weren't.

"I think he will some day.  John had a bad family model.  His father
walked out when John was a year old eventually died of an overdose.
John's mother was a drug addict.  She lived in Southeast until a couple
of years ago.  Sampson was practically raised by my Aunt Tia, with help
from Nana."

We watched Sampson cruise the party with little Alex in his arms.  He
hit on a pretty lady named De Shawn Hawkins who worked with Christine.
"He really is using the baby to hit on women," Christine said in
amazement.  "De Shawn, be careful," she called to her friend.

I laughed.  "Says what he's going to do, does what he says."

The party had started around two in the afternoon.  It was still going
strong at nine-thirty.  I had just sung a duet with Sampson, Joe Tex's
"Skinny Legs and All."  It was a howling success.  We got a lot of
laughs and playful jeers.  Sampson was starting to sing "You're the
First, the Last, My Everything."

That was when Kyle Craig from the FBI arrived.  I should have told
everybody to go home the party was all but over.

Chapter Two

Kyle was carrying a colorfully wrapped and ribboned present for the
baby.  And he had balloons!  The gifts didn't fool me.  Kyle is a good
friend, possibly a great cop, but he isn't social and avoids parties
like they were viral diseases.

"Not tonight, Alex," Christine said, and she suddenly looked concerned,
maybe even angry.  "Don't get involved in some scary, terrible case.
Please, Alex, don't do it.  Not on the night of the christening."

I knew what she meant, and I took her advice, or warning, to heart.  My
mood had already darkened.

Goddamn Kyle Craig.

"No, no, and no," I said as I walked up to Kyle.  I used my index
fingers to make a cross.  "Go away."

"I'm real happy to see you too," Kyle said and beamed.  Then he gave me
a hug.  "Multiple homicide," he whispered.

"Sorry, call back tomorrow or the next day.  This is my night off."

"I know it is, but this is particularly bad, Alex.  This one has really
struck a nerve."

While he was still holding on to me, Kyle told me he was in Washington
only for the night, and he badly needed my help.  He was feeling a lot
of pressure.  I told him no again, but he wasn't listening, and we both
knew it was part of my job to assist the FBI on important cases here.
Also, I owed Kyle a favor or two.  A few years back he let me into a
kidnapping-and-murder case in North Carolina when my niece disappeared
from Duke University.

Kyle knew Sampson and a few of my other detective friends.  They came
over and chatted with him as if this were a social visit.  People tend
to like Kyle.  I did too but not now, not tonight.  He said he had to
peek in on little Alex before we talked business.

Chapter Three

I went along with him.  The two of us stood over the boy, who was now
asleep amidst colorful stuffed bears and balls in a port-a-crib in
Nana's room.  He held on to his favorite bear, which was named Pinky.

"The poor little boy.  What a bad, bad break," Kyle whispered as he
looked down at Alex.  "He looks like you instead of Christine.  How are
you two doing anyway?"

"We're settling back into things okay," I said, which wasn't the truth,
unfortunately.  Christine had been gone from Washington for a year, and
since she'd been back, we hadn't done as well as I would have hoped.  I
missed the intimacy more than I could say.  It was killing me.  But I
wasn't able to tell anyone about it, not even Sampson or Nana.

"Please, Kyle.  Just leave me alone for tonight."

"I wish this could wait, Alex.  I'm afraid it can't.  I'm on my way
back to Quantico now.  Where can we talk?"

I shook my head and felt anger building up inside.  I led him to the
sun porch, where I keep an old upright piano that still plays about as
well as I do.  I sat down on the creaky piano bench, and tapped out a
few notes of Gershwin's "Let's Call the Whole Thing Off."

Kyle recognized the tune and he grinned.  "I am sorry about this."

"Not sorry enough, obviously.  Go ahead."

"You heard about the Citibank-branch robbery out in Silver Spring?  The
murders at the bank manager's house?"  he asked.  "Manager's husband,
their nanny, three-year-old son?"

"How could I not hear about it?"  I said and looked away from Kyle. The
brutal, senseless murders had saddened me and knotted my stomach when I
read about them.  The story was all over the papers and TV. Even cops
in DC were outraged.

"I didn't really understand what I heard so far.  What the hell
happened at the manager's house?  The perps had the money, right?  Why
did they have to kill the hostages if they had the money?  That's what
you're here to tell me, right?"

Kyle nodded his head.  "They were late getting out of the bank.  The
explicit order was that the crew member inside had to be out with the
money by eight-ten exactly.  Alex, the crew member at the bank was less
than a minute late.  Less than a minute!  So they murdered the
thirty-three-year-old father, the three-year-old boy, and the couple's
nanny.  The nanny was twenty-five, and she was pregnant.  They executed
the father, the three-year-old, the nanny.  You see the murder scene,
Alex?"

I rolled my shoulders, twisted my neck.  I could feel the tension
invading my body.  I saw it, all right.  How could they have murdered
those people for no reason?

I really wasn't in the mood for police business, though, not even a bad
case like this one.  "Which brings you out to my house tonight?  On my
son's christening day?"

"Oh, hell."  Kyle suddenly smiled and lightened his tone.  "I had to
come over to see the promised child anyway.  Unfortunately, this case
is really intense.  There's a possibility the crew is from DC.  Even if
they're not from Washington, there's still a possibility somebody here
might know them, Alex.  I need you to look for the killers before they
do it again.  We have the feeling this isn't a one-shot.  Alex, your
baby is a beauty, though."

"Yeah, you're a beauty too," I said to Kyle.  "You are truly beyond
compare."

"Three-year-old boy, the father, a nanny," Kyle said one more time
before he left the party.  He was about to go out through the door in
the sun porch when he turned to me and said, "You're the right person
for this.  They murdered a family, Alex."

As soon as Kyle was gone, I went looking for Christine, but she had
already left.  My heart sank.  She had taken Alex and left without
saying goodbye, without a single word.

Chapter Four

Reluctantly, the Mastermind parked on the street, then walked toward an
abandoned project within a stone's throw of the Anacostia River.  A
full moon cast a cold, hard, bone-white light on half a dozen
crumbling, three-story row houses with open, screen less windows.  He
wondered if he had the stomach for this.  "Into the valley of death,"
he whispered.

To his further dismay, he found the Barkers' hideout was in the row
house farthest from the street.  They were ensconced on the third
floor.  Their lovely little lodging was furnished with a grimy, stained
mattress and a rusted lawn chair.  Greasy wrappings from KFC and Mickey
D's were scattered on the floor.

As he entered their room, he held up a couple of oven-warm pizza boxes
as well as a brown paper bag.  "Chianti and pizza!  This is a
celebration, isn't it?"

Brianne and Errol were evidently hungry and dug into the pizza pies
immediately.  They barely greeted him, which he took as disrespect. The
Mastermind busied himself pouring Chianti into plastic cups he had
brought for the occasion.  He passed around the cups and then made a
toast.

"To perfect crimes," he said.

"Yeah, right.  Perfect crimes."  Errol Parker frowned as he took two
big sips.  "If that's what you call what happened in Silver Spring.
Three murders that could have been avoided."

"That's what I call it, "said the Mastermind.  "Absolutely perfect.
You'll see."

They ate and drank in silence.  The Parkers seemed moody, even defiant.
Brianne kept sneaking looks at him.  Suddenly, Errol Parker began to
rub his throat.  He coughed repeatedly.  Then he gasped loudly. "Aaagh!
Aaagh!"  His throat and his chest were burning.  He couldn't breathe. 
He tried to stand, but he immediately toppled over.

"What is it?  What's wrong, Errol?  Errol?  "Brianne asked, alarmed and
afraid.

Then she grabbed at her throat too.  It was on fire.  So was her chest.
She shot up from the mattress.  She dropped the cup of wine and held
her throat with both hands.

"What the hell is happening?  What's happening to us?  "she screamed at
the Mastermind.  "What did you do?"

"Isn't it obvious?"  he answered in the coldest, most remote voice she
had ever heard.

The tenement room seemed to be whirling out of control.  Errol spasmed,
then fell to the floor and had a seizure.  Brianne bit a gash into her
tongue.  Both of them were still clutching at their throats.  They were
choking, gagging, unable to breathe.  Their faces had taken on a dusky
hue.

The Mastermind stood across the room and watched.  The paralysis from
the poison they had imbibed was progressive and extremely painful.  It
started with the facial muscles, then moved to the glottis in the back
of the throat.  The Parkers obviously couldn't swallow.  Finally, it
affected the respiratory organs.  A high enough dose of Anectine led to
cardiac arrest.

It took less than fifteen minutes for the two of them to die, as
mercilessly as those they had murdered in Silver Spring, Maryland. They
lay motionless, spreadeagled on the floor.  He was quite sure that they
were dead, but he checked the vital signs anyway.  Their features were
unbearably contorted and their bodies twisted.  They looked as if they
had fallen from a great height.

"To perfect crimes," the Mastermind intoned over the grotesquely
sprawled bodies.

Chapter Five

I tried to call Christine early the next morning, but she was still
screening her calls and wouldn't pick up.  She'd never done that to me
and it stung.  I couldn't get it out of my head as I showered and
dressed.  Finally, I went to work.  I was hurt, but I was also a little
angry.

Sampson and I were out on the streets before nine.  The more I read and
thought about the Citibank robbery in Silver Spring, the more troubled
and confused I was about the exact sequence of events.  It didn't make
sense.  Three innocent people had been murdered for what reason?  The
bank robbers already had their money.  What kind of cruel and twisted
sickos were they?  Why kill a father and child and the family's
nanny?

It turned out to be a long and consistently frustrating day.  Sampson
and I were still on the job at nine that night.  I tried calling
Christine at home again.  She still wasn't picking up, or maybe she
wasn't there.

I have a couple of tattered black notebooks filled with names of street
contacts.  Sampson and I had already talked to more than two dozen of
the prime ones.  That still left plenty for tomorrow, and the next day,
and the day after that.  I was pretty well hooked into the case
already.  Why kill three people at the bank manager's house?  Why
destroy an innocent family?

"We're dancing around something," Sampson said as we drove through
Southeast in my old car.  We had just finished talking to a small-time
hustler named Nomar Martinez.  He knew about the bank robbery in
Maryland, but not who did it.  The late, great Marvin Gaye was singing
on the car radio.  I thought of Christine.  She didn't want me out here
on these streets anymore.  She was serious about it.  I wasn't sure if
I could quit being a detective.  I liked my job.

"I had that same feeling with Nomar.  Maybe we should have brought his
ass in.  He was edgy, afraid of something," I said.

"Who's not afraid of something in Southeast?"  Sampson asked.  "The
question remains.  Who's gonna talk to us?"

"How about that ugly mutt there?"  I said and pointed toward the street
corner we were approaching.  "He knows everything happening around
here."

"He spotted us," Sampson said.  "Shit, there he goes!"

Chapter Six

I spun the steering wheel hard to my left.  The Porsche skidded toward
a stop, then hopped the curb with a jolting thud.  Sampson and I jumped
out and started to run after Cedric Montgomery.

"Stop!  Police!"I  yelled at him.

We shot down a narrow, twisted alley behind the small-time enforcer and
all-round tough guy.  Montgomery was a source of information, but he
wasn't a snitch.  He just knew things.  He was in his early twenties;
Sampson and I were both a whisker past forty.  We worked out and we
were still fast at least in our minds.

Montgomery could really move, though.  He was a blur up ahead of us.

"He's just a sprinter, sugar," Sampson huffed.  He was at my side,
matching me stride for stride.  "We're good for the long haul."

"Police!"I  yelled again.  "Why are you running, Montgomery?"

Sweat was already forming on my neck and back.  The perspiration was
dripping down from my hair.  My eyes were burning some.  But I could
still run.  Couldn't I?

"We can take him," I said.  I accelerated, turned up my jets.  It was a
dare a challenge to Sampson, a game we'd been playing for years.  Who
can; we can.

We were actually gaining some on Montgomery.  He looked back -and
couldn't believe we were right behind him.  Two freight trains on his
tail, and there was no way for him to get off the track.

"Put it in full gear, sugar!"  Sampson said.  "Prepare for impact."

I gave it everything.  Sampson and I were still matching steps.  We
were having our own private foot race, and Montgomery was the finish
line.

We both hit him at the same time.  He went down like a shocked
wide-receiver crushed between two very fast linebackers.  I was afraid
he would never get up again.  But Montgomery rolled a few times,
moaned, and then looked at us in total amazement.

"Goddamn!"he whispered.  That was all he said.  Sampson and I took the
compliment, then we cuffed him.

Two hours later Montgomery was talking to us at the station house on
Third Street.  He admitted that he had heard something about the
robbery and murders over in Silver Spring.  He was willing to trade
information if we would look past half a dozen dime bags he had in his
possession when we gang-tackled him on the street.

"I know who you lookin' for," Montgomery said, and he seemed sure of
himself.  "But you ain't gonna like hearin'who it is."

He was right I didn't like what he told me.  Not at all.

Chapter Seven

I wasn't sure whether I could trust Cedric Montgomery's information,
but he'd given me a good hard lead that I had to follow.  He was right
about one thing: His tip was disturbing to me.  One of the people he'd
implicated in the robbery was the stepbrother of my late wife, Maria.
He'd heard that Enrol Parker might have done the bank in Silver
Spring.

Sampson and I spent the next day trying to locate Errol, but he wasn't
at home or at any of his usual haunts around Southeast.  His wife,
Brianne, wasn't around either.  No one had seen the Barkers for at
least a week.

Around five-thirty I stopped by the Sojourner Truth School to see if
Christine was still there.  I'd been thinking about her all day.  She
hadn't answered my calls or returned any messages.

I had met Christine Johnson two years before, and we'd almost gotten
married.  Then a sad and tragic thing happened, and I still blamed
myself: She was kidnapped by a monster who had committed several
murders in Southeast.  She had been held as a hostage for nearly a
year.  Christine was kidnapped because she was seeing me.  She was
missing for a year and believed to be dead.  When Christine was found,
there was another surprise.  She had a baby, our son, Alex.  But the
abduction had changed her, wounded her in ways she didn't understand,
and she couldn't cope with that.  I'd tried to help in any way I could.
It had been months since we'd been intimate.  She kept pushing me
farther and farther away.  Now Kyle Craig had made it even worse.

Nana usually watched over the baby while Christine was working at the
Sojourner Truth School.  Then Christine and little Alex went to her
apartment in Mitchellville.  It was the way she needed it to be.

I entered the school through a side metal door near the gym and heard
the familiar sound of basketballs pounding against hardwood and the
laughter and joyful screams of kids.  I found Christine huddled over
the computer in her office.  She was the principal at the Sojoumer
Truth School.  Jannie and Damon are students there.

"Alex?"  Christine said when she saw me at the door.  I read the sign
on the wall: Praise loudly, blame softly.  Was Christine able to do
that for me?  "I'm almost finished for the day.  Just give me another
minute or two."  At least she didn't seem angry about the other night
with Kyle Craig; she didn't tell me to leave.

"I came to walk you home from school.  I'll even carry your books," I
said and smiled.  "That's all right?"

"I guess so," she said, but she didn't smile back and she still seemed
so far away.

Chapter Eight

When she was ready to go a little while later, we locked up the school
together, then strolled down School Street toward Fifth.  True to my
word, I carried Christine's briefcase filled with what felt like a
dozen books.  I tried a little joke.  "You didn't say anything about
carrying your bowling ball too."

"I told you the books were heavy.  I'm a heavy thinker, you know.
Actually, I'm kind of glad you came by tonight," she said.

"Couldn't keep myself away."  I told the truth and shamed the devil.  I
wanted to take Christine's arm, or at least her hand, but I held back.
It seemed strange and wrong to be so close and yet so distant from her.
I ached to hold her in my arms.

"I want to talk to you about something, Alex," she finally said.  She
stared into my eyes.  I could tell from the look on her face that this
probably wasn't good news I was about to hear.

"I was hoping that it wouldn't bother me your getting on a new murder
case.  But it does bother me, Alex.  It makes me crazy.  I worry about
you.  I worry about the baby.  And I worry about my own safety.  I
can't help it after what happened in Bermuda.  I haven't been sleeping
since I returned to Washington."

It tore me apart to hear Christine talk like this.  I felt terrible
about what had happened to her.  She had changed so much, though. There
didn't seem to be anything I could do to make it better, to help her. 
I'd been trying for months, but nothing worked.  I worried that I
wouldn't just lose Christine, but little Alex as well.

"I remember some of the dreams I've had lately.  They're so violent,
Alex.  And they're so real.  The other night you were chasing the
Weasel again, and he killed you.  He stood there calmly and shot you
again and again.  Then he came to kill the baby and me.  I woke up
screaming."

I finally took her hand.  "Geoffrey Shafer is dead, Christine," I
said.

"You don't know that.  Not for sure," Christine argued and pulled her
hand away from me.  She was angry again.

We walked along the edge of the Anacostia River in silence.  After a
while she told me about some of her other dreams.  I sensed she didn't
want me to interpret them.  Just to listen.  The dreams were all
violent -people Christine knew and loved were mutilated and murdered.

Christine finally stopped walking at the corner of Fifth near my house.
"Alex, I have to tell you something else.  I've been going to a
psychiatrist, Dr.  Belair, in Mitchellville.  He's helping me."

Christine continued to stare into my eyes.  "I don't want to see you
anymore, Alex.  I've thought about this for weeks.  I've talked about
it with Dr.  Belair.  You can't change my mind, and I'd appreciate it
if you didn't try."

She took her briefcase from me, then she walked away.  She didn't let
me say a word, but I would have found it hard to speak anyway.  I had
seen the truth in her eyes.  She didn't love me anymore.  What made it
so much worse was that I still loved her, and of course, I loved our
baby boy.

Chapter Nine

I really didn't have a choice, so I threw myself into the bank robbery
and multiple murders for the next couple of days.  The newspapers and
TV were still filled with sensationalistic stories about the murdered
father, child, and nanny.  The picture of three-year-old Tommy Buccieri
seemed to be everywhere.  Did the killer want us to feel outrage?  I
wondered.

Sampson and I spent most of the next day trying to find Errol and
Brianne Parker.  The more I followed up on the Parkers with the FBI,
the clearer it got that they had probably been robbing small banks in
Maryland and Virginia for at least a year.  The job at Silver Spring
was different.  If they had done it, something had happened to change
their style; they had become brutal, heartless killers.  Why?

Sampson and I stopped for lunch at a Boston Market around one o'clock.
It wasn't our first, or even second choice, but it was handy and the
big man was hungry, wouldn't be denied.  I could have continued on
without eating.

"You think the Parkers are off doing another job?"  he asked me as we
dug into orders of meatloaf, corn, and mashed potatoes.

"If they're the ones who did the bank in Maryland, they're probably
hiding out.  They know the heat is on.  Errol sneaks off to South
Carolina sometimes.  He's a fisherman.  Kyle already has FBI agents on
the ground there."

"You ever spend time with Errol?"  Sampson wanted to know.

"Family get-tog ethers mostly, but he only came to a few that I can
remember.  I went fishing with him once.  He was like a little kid as
long as we were catching large-mouth bass and two- or three-pound
catfish.  Maria always liked Errol."

Sampson kept eating his meatloaf and double order of mashed potatoes.
"You think about Maria much?"

I scrunched down into my seat.  I wasn't sure I wanted to talk about
this now.  "Different things remind me of her.  Especially Sundays.
We'd sleep until noon sometimes, treat ourselves to a nice brunch.  Or
visit the duck pond near the river.  St.  Tony's.  Long walks in
Garfield Park.  It's a sad, confusing thing, John that she died so
young.  It especially hurts that I could never solve her murder."

Sampson kept on hounding me with questions.  He gets that way
sometimes.

"You and Christine are doing all right?"

"No," I finally admitted.  But I couldn't quite get out the whole
truth.  "She can't get over what happened with Geoffrey Shafer.  I'm
not even sure that the Weasel is dead.  We finished here?"

Sampson grinned.  "Food, or my cross-examination?"

"Let's go.  Let's find Errol and Brianne Parker.  Solve the bank
robbery.  Take the rest of the day off."

Chapter Ten

Around seven o'clock Sampson and I decided to take a dinner break.  We
figured we'd be working late, probably past midnight.  It was that kind
of case.  I went home for supper with the kids and Nana Mama.

I ate, and complimented Nana on her cooking, but I didn't taste much of
anything.  I was keeping the Christine thing bottled up inside me.  Not
too bright on my part.

Sampson and I agreed to meet around ten to check out a few night
crawlers who would be easier to find after darkness fell.  At quarter
past ten, we were trolling Southeast again in my car.

Sampson spotted a small-time drug hustler and snitch we knew.  Darryl
Snow was hanging out with his boys in front of a bar and grill that
kept changing its name and now was called Used-To-Be's.

Sampson and I hopped out of the Porsche and came up fast on Snow.  He
had nowhere to run.  As always, Darryl was a drug-hustler
fashion-plate: Crimson nylon shorts over blue nylon pants, Polo
T-shirt, Tommy Hilfiger windbreaker, Oakley shades.

"Hey there, Snowman," Sampson said in his deep voice.  "You're melting
away to nothing."

Even Snow's hustler friends laughed.  Darryl was around five eleven,
and I doubt he weighed a hundred and twenty pounds with his clothes on,
designer labels and all.

"Walk and talk with me, Darryl," I told him.  "This is not open to
discussion."

His head shook like a dashboard doll's, but he reluctantly went along.
"I don' wanna talk to you, Cross."

"Enrol and Brianne Parker," I said, once we were far enough away from
the others.

He and I continued the floor-to-floor search.  The building was damp
and smelled of urine, feces, mildew.  The stench was unbearable.

"I've seen better Holiday Inns," I said and Sampson finally laughed.

I shoved open another door, and knew by the putrescent odor that we'd
found dead bodies.  I waved the flashlight and saw Brianne and Errol.
They no longer looked human.  The building was warm and decomposition
began faster.  I calculated they'd been dead for at least a day,
probably more.

I shone the Maglite flashlight at Errol first, then at his wife.  I
sighed and felt a little sick inside.  I thought of Maria and how she
had liked something about Errol.  When he was little, my son Damon had
called him Uncle Errol.

The corneas of Brianne's eyes were cloudy, as if she had cataracts. Her
mouth was wide open, the jaw slack.  Errol looked pretty much the same.
I thought of the family that had been executed in Silver Spring. What
kind of killers were we dealing with?  Why had they killed the
Parkers?

Brianne's top had been removed, and I didn't see it anywhere in the
room.  Her jeans were pulled down, exposing red panties and her
thighs.

I wondered what it meant.  Had the killer carried Brianne's top away?
Had someone else been in here since the murders?  Had they played
around with Brianne after she was dead?  Was it the killer?

Sampson looked troubled and puzzled.  "Doesn't look like an overdose,"
he said.  "Too violent.  These two suffered."

"John," I finally spoke in a quiet voice, "I think they might have been
poisoned.  Maybe they were supposed to suffer."

I made a call to Kyle Craig and told him about the Parkers: We had
solved part of the Silver Spring robbery, but at least one killer was
still out there.

Chapter Twelve

A rush-rush autopsy confirmed my suspicion that Enrol and Brianne
Parker had been poisoned.  The ingestion of a massive dose of Anectine
had caused rapid muscle contractions and led to cardiac arrest.  The
poison had been mixed into a bottle of Chianti.  Brianne Parker had
been sexually violated after she was dead.  What a mess.

Sampson and I spent another couple of hours talking to the
hang-arounds, the homeless, the junkies living in the abandoned project
buildings on First Avenue.  No one admitted knowing Errol or Brianne;
no one had seen any unusual visitors at the building where the couple
had been hiding.

I finally drifted home for a few hours' sleep, but I was restless in my
bedroom.  I got up and hobbled downstairs.  I was thinking about
Christine and little Alex again.  It was four a.m.

Nana's latest refrigerator note was posted.  It read, Never once," did
she wanna be white," to pass," dreamed only of being darker.  I opened
the fridge and took out a Stewart's root beer, then I wandered out of
the kitchen.  The poem from the refrigerator door drifted through my
head.

I flicked the television on, then off.  I played the piano in the sun
room "Crazy For You' and then some Debussy.  I played "Moonglow," which
reminded me of the best times with Christine.  I imagined ways that we
might fix the relationship.  I'd tried to be there for her every day
since her return to Washington.  She kept pushing me away.  Tears
finally welled in my eyes and I wiped them away.  She's gone.  You have
to start over again.  But I wasn't so sure that I could.

The floorboards squeaked.  "I heard you playing' Clair de Lune.  "Very
nicely I might add."  Nana was standing in the doorway with a tray in
her hands.  There were two steaming coffee mugs on it.

She pushed one of them toward me and I took it.  She then sat in the
old wicker rocker near the piano, quietly sipping her brew.

"This instant?"  I kidded her.

"You find any instant coffee in my kitchen, I'll give you this
house."

"I own the house," I reminded her.

"So you say, sonny boy.  Sunrise Concerto, Alex?  What's the
occasion?"

The sunrise Concerto.  I couldn't sleep.  Bad night, bad dreams.  Bad
morning so far."  I sipped the delicious coffee which was laced with
chicory.  "Good coffee, though."

Nana continued to sip hers.  "Mmm-hmmm.  Tell me something I don't
know.  What else?"

"You remember Maria's stepbrother, Enrol?  Sampson and I found his body
in the First Avenue project last night," I told her.

Nana made a low clucking sound, and she gently shook her head.  "That's
so sad, such a shame, Alex.  They're a good family, nice people."

"I have to go and tell the family this morning.  Maybe that's why I'm
up so early.  Couldn't sleep."

"What else?"  Nana asked again.  She knew me so well, and in a way that
was comforting now.  "Talk to me, Alex.  Tell your nana."

"It's Christine,"I finally said," I think it's over between us.  She
doesn't want to see me.  She told me, made it official.  I don't know
where that leaves little Alex.  Nana, I have tried everything in my
power.  I swear I have."

She put down her coffee mug and she slid one skinny arm around me.  She
still has a lot of strength in her body.  She held me tight," Well
then, you've done what you can, haven't you?  What else can you do?"

"She hasn't gotten over what happened in Bermuda," I whispered.  "She
doesn't want to be with a homicide detective.  She can't do it.  She
doesn't want to be with me."

Nana whispered back at me, "You're taking too much on your shoulders.
You're taking on blame you shouldn't.  It's bending you, Alex.  You can
break.  You listen to Nana now."

"I'm listening.  I always do."

"Do not."

"Do too."

"Do not, and I can keep this up longer than you," she snapped.
"Besides, it proves my point."

Nana always has the last word.  She is the best psychologist in the
house, or so she tells me constantly.

Chapter Thirteen

The second bank robbery went off like a time bomb early that morning in
the town of Falls Church, Virginia, about nine miles outside
Washington.

The bank manager's house was a well-maintained Colonial in a sweet
neighborhood where people seemed to genuinely like one another.  There
was evidence of well-loved children everywhere: Tyco toys, bikes, a
basketball net, dueling swings, a makeshift lemonade stand.  There was
a beautiful garden filled with flowered shrubs.  Birds perched on a
whimsical weathervane a witch on a broom up on the garage roof.  That
morning you could almost hear the witch's cackle.

The Mastermind had told his new crew what they would find and how they
should proceed.  Every move was carefully planned and rehearsed.

The new crew was superior to the Parkers.  It had taken half of the
money from the Citibank job to interest them, but it was worth it. They
called one another Mr.  Red, Mr.  White, Mr.  Blue, and Ms Green. They
had long hair and looked like a heavy-metal rock band, but they were an
efficient team, very high tech.

Mr.  Blue was at the First Union branch when it opened in downtown
Falls Church.  Ms Green went there with him.  They both had
semiautomatic weapons in shoulder holsters underneath their
windbreakers.

Mr.  Red and Mr.  White went to the manager's house.  Katie Bartlett
heard the door chimes and thought it was the baby-sitter.  When she
opened the front door, she turned pale and her legs buckled at the
sight of an armed, masked man wearing a headset with a microphone
jutting under his chin.  Behind him was a second armed man.

"Back inside!  Move it!"  Red screamed loudly through his mask.  He
held his gun inches from her face.

Red and White herded the mother and her three small children into the
family room on the main floor.  The room featured a home entertainment
center and a Tae-Bo video was playing.  A picture window looked out on
a small, still lake, but no one could see them unless they had a boat,
and there were no boats on the lake that morning.

"Now, we're going to make a home movie," Mr.  Red explained to Mrs.
Bartlett and the kids.  He talked to them in a matter-of-fact, almost
friendly way.

"You don't have to hurt anyone," Katie Bartlett told him.  "We'll
cooperate with you.  Please put the guns away.  I beg you."

"I hear you, Katie.  But we have to show your husband that we're
serious and that I'm actually here in the house with you and the
kids."

"They're two, three, and four," the mother said.  She started to cry,
but then she seemed to will herself to stop.  "They're just little
babies.  My babies."

Mr.  Red slid his gun inside his holster.  "There, there.  I don't want
to hurt the kids.  I promise I don't."

He was pleased with the job so far.  Katie seemed smart and the kids
were well behaved.  They were a nice family, the Bartletts.  Just as
the Mastermind had said.

"I want you to be the one to put this duct tape on the kids' mouths,"
Mr.  Red told Katie Bartlett.  He handed over a thick roll of tape.

"They won't make any noise.  I promise, "she said," They're good
kids."

Mr.  Red felt sorry for her.  She was pretty, and an okay lady.  He
thought of the couple and the kid in the movie Life is Beautiful Mr.
Red spoke directly to the kids.  "This is duct tape and we're going to
play a game with it.  It'll be cool," he said

Two of the kids glared at him, but the three-year-old grinned.  "Duck
tape?"

"That's right.  Duck tape.  Quack, quack, quack, quack.  Now Mommy's
going to put the duck tape on everybody's mouth.  Then we make a home
movie for Daddy to see how you look."

"Then what?"  asked Dennis, the four-year-old, who now seemed
interested in the game," We quack up Daddy."

Mr.  Red laughed.  Even Mr.  White managed a smirk.  The kids were
cute.  He hoped he wouldn't have to kill them in a few minutes.

Chapter Fourteen

Somebody was going to be murdered in just a few minutes.  It was 8:12.
The Falls Church robbery was on the clock and it couldn't be stopped.

Ms Green had a rapid-fire weapon aimed in the direction of two
frightened women tellers; both of them were in their mid-to-late
twenties.

Mr.  Blue was already in the manager's office at the First Union branch
office.  He was explaining the rules of the game of 'truth or
consequences' to James Bartlett and his assistant manager.

"Nobody has any panic buttons on them?"  Mr.  Blue asked in a fast,
high-pitched voice that was intended to communicate that he was tense
and maybe close to losing it.  "That would be a serious mistake, and
there can be no mistakes."

"We don't have panic buttons," said the bank manager, who seemed smart
enough and eager to please.  "I would tell you if we did."

"You ever listen to the training tapes put out by the American Society
for Industrial Security?"  Blue asked.

"No, I haven't," the bank manager answered with a nervous stutter. "I'm
sorry."

"Well, their number-one recommendation during a robbery is cooperation
so that no one gets hurt."

The manager nodded his head rapidly.  "I agree with that.  I hear you.
I'm cooperating, sir."

"You're a pretty smart guy for a bank manager.  Everything I told you
about your family being held as hostages is the absolute truth.  I want
you to always tell me the truth too.  Or there will be unfortunate
consequences.  That means no trip alarms, no bait money, no dye packs,
no hidden cameras.  If Sonitrol has a device in here that's recording
me now, tell me."

"I know about the job at the Citibank in Silver Spring," the manager
said.  His wide square face was beet red.  Perspiration dripped from
his forehead in large drops.  His blue eyes blinked repeatedly.

"Watch your computer screen," Mr.  Blue said and pointed with his gun.
"Watch it."

A film sequence came up and the manager saw his wife putting black tape
on the mouths of his three children.

"Oh, God!  I know that the manager in Silver Spring was late.  Let's
get going," he said to the ski-masked man in his office.  "My family is
everything to me."

"We know," Blue said.  He turned to the assistant manager.  He pointed
the gun at her.  "You're not a hero are you, Ms Collins?"

She shook her head of soft red curls.  "No sir, I'm not.  The bank's
money is not my money.  It isn't worth dying for.  It isn't worth Mr.
Bartlett's children dying for."

Mr.  Blue smiled under his mask.  "You took the words right out of my
mouth."

He turned back to the manager.  "I have children, you have children. We
don't want them to be fatherless," he said  It was the Mastermind's
line and an effective one, he thought.  "Let's get going."

They hurried to the main vault, which had a dual combination and needed
both Bartlett and his assistant manager to open it.  In less than sixty
seconds, the vault was open.

Mr.  Blue then held up a silver metal device for all to see; it looked
like a TV remote control.  "This is a police scanner," he said.  "If
the police or the FBI are alerted and come our way, I'll know it as
soon as they do.  And then you two, and also the two tellers, die.  Are
there any trip alarms inside the vault?"

The manager shook his head.  "No, sir.  There are no secret alarms. 
You have my word."

Mr.  Blue smiled again behind his mask," Then let's go get my money.
Move it!"

Blue had just about finished loading up the cash when his police
scanner suddenly picked up an alert.  "Robbery in progress at First
Union Bank, downtown Falls Church."

He swiveled toward James Bartlett and shot the bank manager dead.  Then
he turned and shot Ms Collins through the forehead.

Just the way it had been planned.

Chapter Fifteen

The siren on the roof of my car was screaming.  So was my body.

And my brain.

I arrived at the First Union Bank in Falls Church, Virginia, at almost
the same time that Kyle Craig and his FBI team got there.

A black helicopter was just settling into the mostly empty
shopping-mall parking area directly behind the bank.  Kyle and three
other agents climbed out of the chopper and headed toward me at a fast
trot.  They were stooped over and looked like monks hurrying to chapel.
All four wore blue FBI windbreakers, which meant the Bureau wanted the
public to know the FBI was involved with the investigation.  The
murders so far were gross and chilling for everyone.  People needed to
be reassured, to have their hands held.

"You been inside the bank already?"  Kyle huffed as he came jogging up
to me.  He too looked like he hadn't slept.

"I just got here myself.  Saw the big bad Belljet sputtering in.
Figured it had to be you, or DarthVader.  Let's go in together."

"This is Senior Agent Betsey Cavalierre," Kyle said, indicating a
smallish woman with lustrous black hair and eyes almost as dark.  She
wore her oversized FBI windbreaker over a white T-shirt, khaki
trousers, running shoes.  She was probably in her mid-thirties.
Intense-looking and also pretty, though certainly not glamorous.

"This is the rest of the first team.  Agents Michael Doud and James
Walsh," Kyle continued with the introductions.  "This is Alex Cross.
He's the VICAP liaison with the DC police.  Alex found the bodies of
Enrol and Brianne Parker."

There were quick, polite hellos and handshakes all round.  Senior Agent
Betsey Cavalierre seemed to be sizing me up.  Maybe it was because her
boss and I were friends.  Or maybe because I was VICAP, the official
liaison between the FBI and the Metro police.  Kyle took me by the
elbow and steered me away from his agents.

"If the original two bank robbers are dead, who the hell did this job?"
Kyle asked as we walked past ribbons of yellow crime tape snapping
loudly in a crisp breeze from the southeast," This is as bad as it
gets.  You see why I brought you in?"

"Because misery likes company," I said.

The FBI ADIC, or assistant director in charge, walked with me inside
the bank lobby.  My stomach fell.  Two female tellers were lying on the
floor.  They were dressed in dark blue business suits, now stained with
their blood.  Both were dead.  Their head wounds indicated they had
been shot at close range.

"Executed.  Goddamn it.  Goddamn it," Agent Cavalierre said as we
stopped at the bodies.  An FBI crime-scene unit immediately began
videotaping the scene and taking still photographs.  We headed toward
the open bank vault.

Chapter Sixteen

It got worse in a hurry.  Two more victims were inside the vault, a man
and a woman.  They had been shot several times.  The business suits and
bodies were riddled with bullets.  Had they been punished too?  I
wondered.  What were their sins?  Why the hell was this happening?

"This makes no goddamn sense to me," Kyle said rubbing his face with
both hands.  It was a familiar tic of his and instantly reminded me of
the many cases we had worked together in the past.  We complained about
it sometimes, but we'd always been there for each other.

"Bank robbers don't usually kill anybody.  Not pros.  "Agent Cavalierre
spoke," So why do this sick stunt?"

"Was the family of the manager held hostage as in the Silver Spring
robbery?"  I asked.  I almost didn't want to hear the answer.

Kyle looked my way, nodded.  "Mother and three kids.  We just got word
on them.  Thank God, they were released.  They weren't harmed.  So why
were these four butchered, and the family released?  Where's a
pattern?"

I didn't know yet.  Kyle was right: The robbery-murders didn't make any
sense.  Or rather, we weren't thinking like the killers.  We didn't get
it, did we?

"There might have been a screw-up here at the branch.  If this is
connected to the bank in Silver Spring."

"We have to assume it is," said Agent Cavalierre.  "The father, nanny,
and child were killed in Silver Spring because the manager was warned
that the crew had to be out of the bank at a certain time or the
hostages died.  According to the video monitor at the bank, they missed
by less than thirty seconds."

As usual, Kyle had information the rest of us didn't.  He shared it
now.  "An alarm went to the police here in Falls Church.  I think
that's what prompted the four murders.  We're trying to run down where
the warning call came from."

"How would the crew know the alarm went to the police?"  I asked.

"They probably had a police scanner," Agent Cavalierre said.

Kyle nodded.  "Agent Cavalierre is very smart about bank robberies," he
said 'and just about everything else."

"I'm after Kyle's job," she said and smiled thinly.  I took Agent
Cavalierre at her word.

Chapter Seventeen

I accompanied Kyle and his first-team entourage to FBI headquarters in
downtown Washington.  We were all feeling a little sick about the
murder scene we'd witnessed.  Agent Cavalierre did know a great deal
about bank robberies, including several committed in the Midwest that
resembled the Citibank and First Union jobs.

At headquarters, she pulled up as much relevant information as she
could get in a hurry.  We read printouts about a pair of desperadoes
named Joseph Dougherty and Terry Lee Connor.  I wondered if their
exploits might have served as some kind of model for the two recent
robberies.  Dougherty and Connor had hit several banks in the Midwest.
They would usually kidnap the manager's family first.  Before one
robbery, they held the manager and his family for three days over a
holiday weekend, then robbed the bank on a Monday.

"There's a big difference, though.  Dougherty and Connor never hurt a
soul in any of the robberies," Cavalierre said.  "They weren't killers
like this current scum we're dealing with.  What the hell do they
want?"

I made myself go home around seven that night.  I had a home-cooked
dinner with Nana and the kids: Shallow-fried chicken, cheese grits, and
steamed broccoli.  After we did the dishes, Damon, Jannie and I trooped
down to the basement for the kids' weekly boxing lesson.  The boxing
lessons have been going on for a couple of years and aren't really
necessary for Damon and Jannie anymore.  Damon is a clever ten,
Jannie's eight, and they can both defend themselves.  But they like the
exercise and the camaraderie, and so do I. What happened that night
came out of the blue.  It was unannounced and totally unexpected.
Afterward, once I knew what had happened, I understood why.

Jannie and Damon were fooling around, showing off a little, strutting
their stuff.  Jannie must have walked into a punch from Damon.

The looping blow struck her squarely in the forehead, just above the
left eye.  That much I'm certain about.  The rest was a blur to me.  A
complete shock.  It was as if I was seeing life as a series of
stop-motion photos.

Jannie tilted to the left and she went down in a frightening collapse.
She hit the floor hard.  Her movements suddenly became jerky, and then
her limbs went completely stiff.  There was absolutely no warning.

"Jannie!"  Damon yelled, aware that he'd hit and hurt his sister,
though it was an accident.

I hurried to her side as Jannie's body began to shake and spasm
uncontrollably.  Soft, gagging moans came from her throat.  She
obviously couldn't speak.  Then her eyes rolled way back until only the
whites showed.

Jannie began to choke horribly.  I yanked off my belt.  I folded it and
wedged it into her mouth, to keep her from swallowing her tongue, or
possibly lacerating it with a hard bite.  My heart was pounding as I
held the tightly folded belt in her mouth.  I kept telling her, "It's
okay, it's okay, Jannie.  Everything is okay, baby."

I tried to be as soothing as I possibly could be.  I tried not to let
her see how scared I was.  The violent spasms wouldn't stop.  I was
pretty sure Jannie was having a seizure.

Chapter Eighteen

Everything is okay, baby.  Everything is going to be fine.

Two or three horrifying minutes passed like that.  Everything wasn't
okay, though, not even close; everything was as terrible as it could
be, as terrible as it had ever been.

Jannie's lips had turned bluish, and she was drooling.  Then she lost
control of her bladder and peed on the floor.  She still couldn't
speak.

I had sent Damon upstairs to call for help.  An ambulance arrived less
than ten minutes after Jannie's seizure ended.  So far, there hadn't
been another one.  I prayed there wouldn't be.

Two EMT attendants hurried down to the basement where I was still
kneeling on the floor beside Jannie.  I held one of her hands; Nana
held the other.  We had propped a pillow from the couch under her head
and had covered her with a blanket.  This is crazy, I kept thinking.
This can't be happening.

"You're okay, sweetie," Nana hummed softly.

Jannie finally looked at her.  "No I'm not, Nana."

She was fully conscious now, scared and confused.  She was also   
embarrassed because she'd wet herself.  She knew something strange and
terrible had happened to her.  The EMTs were gentle and reassuring.
They checked Jannie's vital signs: Temperature, pulse, and blood
pressure.  Then one of them inserted an IV in her arm, while the other
brought out an intubation box," breathing aid.

My heart was still pounding, racing terribly.  I felt as if I might
stop breathing too.

I told the EMT workers what had happened," She had violent spasms for
about two minutes.  Her limbs went stiff as boards.  Her eyes rolled
back."  I told them about the shadow-boxing and the punch that had
landed above her left eye.

"It does sound like a seizure," the lead person said.  Her green eyes
were sympathetic, reassuring.  "It could have been the blow she took,
even if it was a light hit the angle of attack.  We should take her to
St.  Anthony's."

I nodded agreement, then watched in horror as they strapped my little
girl on a stretcher and carried her out to the waiting ambulance.  My
legs were still unsteady.  My whole body was numb and my vision
tunneled.

"You have to use the siren," Jannie whispered to the EMT techs as they
lifted her into the back of the ambulance van.  "Please?"

And they did all the way to St.  Anthony's Hospital.  I know. 1 rode with
Jannie.

Longest ride of my life.

Chapter Nineteen

At the hospital, Jannie had an EEC, then she underwent as thorough a
neurological exam as they could give her at that time of the day.  Her
cranial nerves were tested.  She was asked to walk a straight line;
then to hop on one foot, to determine the presence of any ataxia.  She
did as she was told, and seemed better now.  Still, I watched her as if
she might suddenly shatter.

Just as she was finishing the exam, Jannie had a second seizure.  It
lasted longer and was more violent than the first one.  It couldn't
have been any worse if it had happened to me.  When the attack finally
stopped, Jannie was given Valium IV.  The hospital staff was right
there for her, but their concern was also frightening.  A nurse asked
me if there had been any symptoms before the seizure, such as blurred
vision, headaches, nausea, loss of coordination.  I hadn't noticed
anything unusual.  Neither had Nana.

When she had finished her examination of Jannie, Dr.  Bone from the
emergency room took me aside.  "We'll keep her here overnight for
observation, Detective Cross.  We'd like to be extra careful."

"Extra careful is good,"I said.  I was still shaking a little.  I could
see it in my hands.

"She might be here longer than that," Dr.  Bone then added," We need to
do more tests on Jannie.  I don't like the fact that there was a second
seizure."

"All right.  Of course, Doctor.  I don't like that there was a second
seizure either."

There was a bed available on the fourth floor and Nana and I went up
there with Jannie.  Hospital policy required that she be taken on a
gurney, but I got to push it.  She was groggy and unusually quiet in
the elevator going up; she didn't ask me any questions until we were
alone behind a curtain in the hospital room.

"Okay," she said, then," Tell me the truth, Daddy.  You have to tell me
everything.  The truth."

I took a deep breath.  "Well, you probably had what's called a grand
mal seizure.  Two of them.  Sometimes they just happen, sweetheart. Out
of the blue, like tonight.  Damon's punch might have had something to
do with it."

She frowned.  "He barely touched me."  Jannie stared into my eyes,
trying to read me.  "Okay,"she said.  "That's not so bad, is it?  At
least I'm still here on planet Earth for now."

"Don't talk like that," I told her.  "It isn't funny."

"Okay.  I won't scare you," she whispered.

Jannie reached out and took my hand and we held on tight.  In a few
minutes, she was fast asleep, still holding on to my hand.

Book Two

Hate Mail

Chapter Twenty

No one could figure out what was happening, or why.  He just loved
that.  The feeling of superiority it bred.  They were all such
dithering fools.

On a numerical scale of 9.9999 out of 10, things were going very well.
The Mastermind was certain that he hadn't made a meaningful mistake. He
took particular satisfaction in the Falls Church robbery and especially
the four puzzling murders.

He relived every moment of the bloody crime as if he had been there
instead of lucky Messrs Red, White, Blue, and Ms Green.  He visualized
the scene at the manager's house, and then the murders at the bank,
with such intense pleasure and satisfaction.  He recreated it in his
mind again and again and never tired of the scenario, especially the
killings.  The artistry and symbolism of them infused him with
confidence in the cleverness of his thinking the rightness of it.

He found himself smiling at the thought of the phone call to the
police: The tip that a robbery was in progress.  He'd made the call.
He'd wanted the First Union employees killed.  That was the whole
goddamn point.  Didn't anybody see that yet?

He had another team to recruit now, the most important one, and the
hardest to find.  The final crew had to be extremely capable and
self-sufficient, and, because of that self-sufficiency, they would pose
a danger to him.  He understood very well that clever people often had
large and uncontrollable egos.  He certainly did.

He brought up the names of potential candidates on his computer screen.
He read lengthy profiles, and even criminal records, which he thought
of as their resumes.  Then suddenly that dreary, rainy afternoon, he
came across a crew that was as different from the others as he was from
the rest of humanity.

The proof?  They had no criminal record.  They had never been caught,
never even been suspected.  It was why they'd been so hard for him to
find.  They seemed perfect for his perfect job for his masterpiece.

No one could figure out what was about to happen.

Chapter Twenty-One

At 9:00 a.m. I met with a neurologist named Thomas Petito who patiently
explained the tests Jannie would go through.  He wanted first to
eliminate some possible causes of the seizures.  He told me that
worrying would do no good, that Jannie was in excellent hands his -and
that for the moment the best thing I could do was to go to work," I
don't want you worrying needlessly," Petito said.  "And I don't want
you in my way."

I drove 1-95 South to Quantico that afternoon after I had lunch with
Jannie.  I needed to visit with the FBI's best technicians and
profilers, and they were at Quantico.  I didn't like leaving Jannie at
St.  Anthony's, but Nana was with her and there weren't any major tests
scheduled until the following morning.

Kyle Craig had called me at the hospital and asked about Jannie.  He
was genuinely concerned.  Kyle then told me that the Justice
Department, the banking industry, and the media were all over him like
a cheap suit.  The FBI dragnet now covered most of the East Coast, but
it wasn't delivering results.  He'd even flown in one of the agents
from the team that had tracked down master bank-robber Joseph Dougherty
in the mid-eighties.

Kyle also said that Senior Agent Cavalierre was running the task force.
I wasn't too surprised.  She had struck me as one of the brightest and
most energetic of the Bureau agents I'd met, other than Kyle himself.

The agent from the original Dougherty team was named Sam Withers. Kyle,
Agent Cavalierre, and I met with him in Kyle's conference room at
Quantico.  Withers was in his mid-sixties now; he was retired and told
us he played a lot of golf in the Scottsdale area.  He admitted he
hadn't given much thought to bank robbers in several years, but the
horror of these robberies had caught his attention.

Betsey Cavalierre got right down to business.  "Sam, did you get a
chance to read our write-ups of the Citibank and First Union
robberies?"

"Sure did.  I read them a couple of times on my way here," Withers
said, running the palm of his hand over his buzz cut.  He was a beefy
man, probably two hundred forty pounds or more, and reminded me of
retired baseball sluggers like Ted Klusewski and Ralph Kiner.

"First impressions?"  she asked the former agent.  "What do you think,
Sam?  Is there any connection to the current mess?"

"Big, big differences between these jobs and the ones I worked on.
Neither Dougherty nor Connor was violent by nature.  Those guys were
basically small-town, small-time criminal minds.  "Old school," like
those commercials you see on ESPN.  Even the hostages spoke of them as
"congenial" and "pleasant."  Connor always carefully explained that he
didn't want to steal anything in the hostages' homes  Said he didn't
want to harm anyone.  He and Dougherty both despised banks, and they
despised insurance companies.  That might be the hook-up with your
perps."

Withers continued to reminisce and conjecture in a soft, sleepy
Midwestern drawl.  I sat back and thought about what he had just said.
Maybe somebody else out there despised banks and insurance companies
too.  Or possibly they hated bankers and their families for some
reason.  Someone with a deep enough grudge could be behind the
robberies and murders.  It made some sense, as much as anything else we
had.

After Sam Withers left the conference room we talked about other cases
that might relate to this one.  One in particular caught my attention.
A major robbery had occurred outside Philadelphia in January.  Two men
had kidnapped a bank executive's husband and infant son.  They said
they had a bomb and threatened to blow up their hostages unless the
bank vault was opened.

"They kept in touch with walkie-talkies.  Used police scanners too.
Kind of like the First Union job," Betsey reported from her extensive
notes," It might be the same people who did the First Union."

"Any violence in the job outside Philly?"  I asked her.

She shook her head and her shiny black hair flipped to one side," No,
none."

With all the resources of the FBI and hundreds of local police
departments, we were still nowhere on the robbery-murders.  Something
was very wrong with this picture.  We still weren't thinking like the
killers.

Chapter Twenty-Two

I got back to St.  Anthony's around four-thirty in the afternoon.
Jannie wasn't in her room, which surprised me.  Nana and Damon were
sitting reading.  Nana said she had been taken for tests ordered by her
neurologist, Dr.  Petito.

Jannie returned at a quarter to five.  She looked tired.  She was so
young to be going through this kind of ordeal.  She and Damon had
always been healthy, even as babies, which made this even more of a
shock.

When Jannie rolled into the room in a wheelchair, Damon suddenly choked
up.  So did I. "Give us a big bear hug, Daddy," Jannie looked at us and
said, 'like you used to when we were little."

The vivid image came flooding back to me.  I remembered the feeling of
holding them both in my arms when they were much smaller.  I did what
Jannie asked: I bear-hugged my two babies.

As the three of us embraced, Nana came back from a walk down the hall.
She had someone tagging along.

Christine entered the room behind Nana.  She wore a silver-gray blouse
with a dark blue skirt and matching shoes.  She must have come to the
hospital from school.  She seemed a little distant to me, but at least
she was there for Jannie.

"Here's everybody," Christine said.  She never made eye contact with
me," I wish I had my camera."

"Oh, we're always like this," Jannie said to her," This is just our
family."

We talked some, but mostly we listened to Jannie describe her long,
scary day.  She seemed so vulnerable suddenly, so small.  She was
brought dinner at five.  Rather than complain about the bland hospital
food, she compared it favorably to her favorite dishes prepared by
Nana.

That got a laugh out of everybody, except Nana, who pretended to be
miffed.  "Well, we can just order out from the hospital when you get
home," Nana said as she gave Jannie the evil eye.  "Save me a lot of
aggravation and work."

"Oh, you like to work," Jannie told Nana.  "And you love
aggravation,"

"Almost as much as you love to tease me," Nana countered.

As Christine was getting up to leave, the nurse brought a phone from
the nurses' station.  She announced that there was an important call
for Detective Cross.  I groaned and shook my head.  Everybody stared at
me as I took the phone.

"It's okay, Daddy," Jannie said.

Kyle Craig was on the line.  He had bad news," I'm on my way to the
First Virginia branch in Rosslyn.  They hit another bank, Alex."

Nana shot poisoned darts at me with her eyes.  Christine wouldn't look
at me.  I felt guilty and ashamed, and I hadn't done anything wrong.

"I have to go for an hour or so," I finally said.  "I'm sorry."

Chapter Twenty-Three

The bank robberies were coming too fast, one after the other, like
dominoes tumbling.  Whoever was behind them didn't want to give us a
chance to think, to catch a breath, or to organize ourselves.

Rosslyn was only about fifteen minutes from St.  Anthony's Hospital.  I
didn't know what I would find out there: The possible brutalities; the
number of dead bodies.

The branch of First Virginia was only a block away from Bell Atlantic
headquarters.  It was another freestanding bank.  Did that mean some-;
;..  thing to the perps?  Probably.  What, though?  The few clues we
had so is;, far weren't adding up to anything.  Not for me anyway.
I noticed a Dunkin' Donuts and a Blockbuster Video directly
across the street.  People were going in and out.  The suburban
neighborhood was busy and operating as if nothing had happened.

Something had definitely happened.

I spotted four dark sedans clustered together in the bank parking lot.
I suspected they were FBI cars and pulled in beside them.  There were
no police cars on the scene yet.  Kyle had called me, but he hadn't
called in the Rosslyn police.  Not a good sign.

I showed my detective's badge to a tall, lanky agent posted at the back
door.  He looked to be in his late twenties.  Nervous and scared.

"The SAC is inside.  He's expecting you, Detective Cross," the agent
said in a soft Virginia accent, not unlike Kyle's.

"Casualties in there?"  I asked.

The agent shook his dark crew-cut, bullet-shaped head.  He was trying
not to show that he was nervous, maybe afraid.  "We just arrived, sir.
I don't know the casualty situation inside.  I was told to wait out
here by Senior Agent Cavalierre.  It's her case."

"Yes, I know."

I opened the glass door.  I paused for a beat alongside the ATMs in the
vestibule.  Focused.  Prepared myself a little.  I saw Kyle and Betsey
Cavalierre across the lobby.

They were talking to a silver-haired man who looked like he might be
the bank's manager, or possibly the assistant manager.  It didn't look
as if anyone had been hurt.  Jesus.  Was that possible?

Kyle saw me and immediately walked my way.  Agent Cavalierre stayed
close at his side, so close she almost seemed glued to Kyle.

Tt's a miracle," Kyle said.  "No one's hurt here.  They took the money
and got away clean, though.  We're going to the manager's house.  His
wife and daughter were held hostage, Alex.  The phones at the house are
dead."

"Call the Rosslyn police, Kyle.  They'll have squad cars there."

"We're three minutes away.  Let's go!"  Kyle barked.  He and Agent
Cavalierre were already heading toward the door.

Chapter Twenty-Four

The message from Kyle was loud and clear: The FBI was in charge of the
robbery-murders bank investigation.  I was welcome to join up, or
leave.  For the moment, I went along.  It was Cavalierre and Kyle's
case and their huge headache, their time in the pressure cooker.

No one spoke as we rode through Rosslyn in one of the FBI sedans.  One
pattern of the robberies had been clear so far: Somebody died when a
robbery took place.  It almost seemed that a serial killer was robbing
banks.

The bank alarm went directly to the FBI?"  I finally spoke up about
something that had bothered me since I got Kyle's call at St.
Anthony's.

Betsey Cavalierre turned toward me from the front seat.  "First Union,
Chase, First Virginia, and Citibank are all connected to us for the
time being.  It was their decision we didn't pressure them.  We moved
several dozen extra agents into the DC area, so we'd be ready when and
if another bank was hit.  We arrived at the branch in Rosslyn in less
than ten minutes.  They got out anyway."

"You call the Rosslyn PD yet?"  I asked.

Kyle nodded.  "We called, Alex.  We don't want to step on anybody's
toes if we don't have to.  They're on their way to the bank branch."
I shook my head and rolled my eyes.  "Not to the bank manager's
house, though."

"We want to check the house ourselves first."  Agent Cavalierre
answered for Kyle.  "The killers aren't making any mistakes.  Neither
can we."  She was brusque and impatient with me.  I didn't much like
her tone, and she didn't seem to care what I thought.

"Rosslyn has a very good police force," I told her.  "I've worked with
them before.  Have you?"  I felt I had to defend some of the people I
knew and respected.

Kyle sighed.  "You know it depends on who responds first.  That's the
problem.  Betsey's right we can't make mistakes on this one.  They
don't."

We turned on to High Street in Rosslyn.  The neighborhood looked
peaceful, serene, thriving: Nicely groomed lawns, two-car garages,
large homes, both new and old.

They always kill somebody, I couldn't help thinking.  They've done it
to a family before.

We parked in front of a large Colonial house with a big red number 315
on a pale yellow mailbox.  A second dark sedan edged into the curb
behind us more agents.  The more the scarier.

"The crew is probably gone."  Kyle spoke into his walkie-talkie.  "But
remember, you never know.  These guys are killers.  They seem to like
it too."

Chapter Twenty-Five

I never know, I thought.  How true that was, and how thoroughly .
frightening it could be sometimes.

Was it part of what kept me on the job?  The adrenaline spike that
wasn't like anything else I'd ever experienced?  The uncertainty of
each new case?  The thrill of the hunt?  A dark side of myself?  What?
Good occasionally triumphing over evil?  Evil often triumphing over
good?

As I unholstered my Clock, I tried to clear my mind of anything that
would interfere with my timing or reflexes in the next few moments.
Kyle, Betsey Cavalierre, and I hurried toward the front door.  We had
our guns drawn.  Everyone looked solid, professional, appropriately
nervous.

You never know.

The house was deadly quiet from the outside.  Somewhere in the
neighborhood a dog howled.  A baby bawled.  The baby's cry hadn't come
from the bank manager's house.

Somebody had died at each of the first two robberies.  That was the
only pattern so far.  The killers' ritual?  The warning?  The what?
Could this be a pattern murderer robbing banks?  What in the name of
God was happening?

"I go in first," I said to Kyle.  I wasn't asking his permission.
"We're in Washington.  We're close anyway."

Kyle chose not to argue with me.  Agent Cavalierre was silent.  Her
dark eyes studied my face.  Had she been on the front line before?  I
wondered.  What was she feeling right now?  Had she ever used her
gun?

The door of the house was unlocked.  They had left it open.  On
purpose?  Or because they departed in a hurry?

I moved inside.  Quickly, silently, hoping for the best, expecting the
worst.  The foyer, living room, and kitchen beyond were all dark.
Except for the stuttering red glow of a blinking digital clock on the
stove.  The only sound was the refrigerator humming.

Agent Cavalierre motioned for the three of us to split off.  There
wasn't so much as a whisper inside the house.  This wasn't good.  Where
was the family?

I moved in a low crouch toward the kitchen.  I took a look inside.  No
one there.

I opened a wooden door at the rear of the kitchen: Closet.  The pungent
odor of spices and condiments.

I opened a second door: Back stairs leading up to the second floor.

A third door: Stairs leading down to the cellar.

The cellar had to be checked out.  I flicked on the light switch.  No
light came on.  Damn it.

"Police," I called out.  No answer.

I took a deep breath.  I didn't see any immediate danger to myself, but
I feared what I might find down there.  I hesitated a second or two,
then I stepped on creaking wooden stairs.  I hate cellars, always
have.

"Police," I repeated.  Still no answer from down there.  Checking out
dark places in a house isn't fun.  Not even when you have a gun and
know how to use it pretty well.  I flicked on my Maglite flashlight.
Okay, here we go.

My heart was beating wildly as I hurried down the flight of stairs.  My
gun was at the ready.  I lowered my head and took a good look around.
Jesus!

I saw them as soon as I cleared the wooden overhang.  I felt the
adrenaline spike.

"I'm Detective Cross.  I'm the police!"

The wife and the baby girl were there.  The mother was bound and gagged
with black tape over different colored cloths.  Her eyes were wide and
as bright as searchlights.  The baby had black tape over her mouth. The
infant's chest was heaving with silent sobs.

They were alive, though.  No one had been hurt either here or at the
bank.

Why was that?

The pattern had changed!

"What's going on down there?  You all right, Alex?"  I heard Kyle Craig
call.  I flashed the light up and saw Kyle and Agent Cavalierre
standing at the top of the stairs.

"They're here.  They're safe.  Everyone's alive."

What in hell was going on?

Chapter Twenty-Six

The Mastermind what a quaint, totally absurd name.  It was almost
perverse.  He liked it for just that reason.

He actually watched the scene at the bank manager's house and he felt
as if he were standing outside of his own body.  He remembered an old
TV show from his youth: You Are There.  He was, wasn't he.

He found it quite thrilling to see the FBI technicians enter the house
with their magic black boxes.  He knew all about them, the VCU, or
Violent Crime Unit.

He closely observed the somber, serious-faced agents come and go.

Then the Rosslyn police arrived en masse.  Half a dozen squad cars with
their turret lights blazing.  Sort of pretty.

Finally, he saw Detective Alex Cross leave the house.  Cross was tall
and well built.  He was in his early forties, resembled the fighter
Muhammad All at his best.  Cross's face wasn't flat, though.  His brown
eyes sparkled constantly.  He was better-looking, actually, than Ali
had ever been.

Cross was one of his prime opponents, and this was a fight to the
death, wasn't it.  It was an intensive battle of wits, but even more
than that, a battle of wills.

The Mastermind was confident that he would win against Cross.  If
anything, this was a mismatch.  The Mastermind always won, didn't he?
And yet, he felt a little unsure.  Cross exuded confidence too, and
that made him angry.  How dare he?  Who did the detective think he
was?

He watched the house for a while longer, and knew it was perfectly safe
for him to be there.

Perfectly safe.

On a numerical scale of 9.9999 out of 10.

He had a crazy thought then, and he knew where it came from.

--r

When he was just a boy, he absolutely loved cowboy-and-Indian movies
and TV shows.  He always rooted for the Indians.  And he particularly
loved one extraordinary trick that they had they would sneak into an
enemy's camp and simply touch the enemy while he slept.  It was called,
he believed, counting coup.  The Mastermind wanted to count coup on
Alex Cross.

Chapter Twenty-Seven

As soon as we knew that everyone in the house was safe, I called St.
Anthony's Hospital to check on Jannie.  Guilt, paranoia, and duty were
all pulling hard at me.  The furies had me in a terrible vise.  The
bank manager's family was safe.  What about my own?

I was put in contact with the nurses' station on Jannie's floor.  I
spoke to an RN, Julietta Newton, who sometimes stopped by Jannie's room
when I came to visit.  Julietta reminded me of an old friend, a nurse
who had died the year before, Nina Childs.

"This is Alex Cross.  I'm sorry to bother you, Julietta, but I'm trying
to reach my grandmother.  Or my daughter, Jannie."

"Nana isn't on the floor at the moment," the nurse told me.  "Jannie
just went down for an MRL A spot was available and Dr.  Petito wanted
her to take it.  Your grandmother accompanied her downstairs."

"I'm on my way.  Is Jannie all right?"

The nurse hesitated, then she spoke.  "She had another seizure,
Detective.  She's stabilized, though."

I rushed back to the hospital from Rosslyn and got there in about
fifteen minutes.  I hurried down to B-l and found an area marked
DIAGNOSTIC TESTING.  It was late, almost ten o'clock.  No one was at
the front desk, so I walked right past and down a light blue corridor
that looked eerie and foreboding at that time of night.

As I approached a room with COMPUTERIZED TOMOGRAPHY and MRI lettered on
the door, a technician appeared from a doorway across the hall.  He
startled me I was walking in a fog.  Thinking, worrying about Jannie.

"Can I help you?  Are you supposed to be down here, sir?"

"I'm Jannie Cross's father.  I'm Detective Cross.  She's having an MRI.
She had a seizure tonight."

The man nodded.  "She's down here.  I'll show you the way.  I believe
she's about halfway through the test.  Our last patient for the
night."

Chapter Twenty-Eight

The hospital tech showed me into the MRI room where Nana was sitting
vigil.  She was trying to keep up a calm exterior, trying to maintain
her usual self-control.  For once, it wasn't working.  I saw the fear
lighting up her eyes, or maybe I was projecting my own feelings.

I looked over at the MRI machine and it was state-of-the-art.  It was
more open and less restraining than others I'd seen.  I'd had two MRIs,
so I knew the drill.  Jannie would be lying flat inside.  Her head
would be immobilized on either side by' sandbags  "The image of Jannie
alone inside the imposing machine was disturbing.  But so was her third
seizure in two days.

"Can she hear us?"  I asked.

Nana cupped her hands to her ears.  "She's listening to music in there.
But you can hold her hand, Alex.  She knows your touch."

I reached out and took one of Jannie's hands.  I squeezed gently, and
she squeezed back.  She knew it was me.

"What happened while I was gone?"  I asked Nana.

"We were lucky, so lucky," she said.  "Dr.  Petito stopped by on his
rounds.  He was talking to Jannie when she had another grand mal.  He
ordered the MRI, and they had an opening for her.  Actually, they
stayed open for her."

I sat down because I needed to.  It had been a long and stressful day
and it wasn't over yet.  My heart was still racing, so was my head. The
rest of my body was struggling to catch up.

"Don't start blaming yourself," Nana told me.  "Like I said, we're very
lucky.  The best doctor in the hospital was right there in her room."

"I'm not blaming anybody," I muttered, knowing it wasn't true.

Nana frowned.  "If you had been there during the seizure, she'd still
be here having the MRI.  And in case you think it could have been the
boxing, Dr.  Petito said there's almost no chance.  The contact was too
minimal.  It's something else, Alex."

That was exactly what I was afraid of.  We waited for the test to be
over and it was a long hard wait.  Finally, Jannie slowly slid out of
the machine.  Her little face brightened when she saw me.

"Fugees," she said, then took off the earphones for me to hear.
"Killing me softly with his song."  She sang along with the music.
"Hello, Daddy.  You said you'd come back.  Kept your promise."

"I did."  I bent down to kiss her.  "How are you, sweetie?"  I asked.
"You feeling okay now?"

"They played some really nice music for me, "she said.  'I'm hanging in
there, hanging tough.  I can't wait to see the pictures of my brain,
though."

Neither could I, neither could I. Dr.  Petito had waited around for the
pictures.  He never seemed to leave the hospital.  I met with him in
his office at a little past eleven-thirty.  I was beyond tired.  We
both were.

"Long day for you,"I said.  Every day seemed to be like that for
Petito.  The neurologist had office hours starting at seven-thirty in
the morning, and he was still around the hospital at nine and ten
o'clock at night, sometimes later.  He actually encouraged patients to
call him at home if they had a problem or just got scared at night.

"This is my life."  He shrugged.  "Helped get me divorced a few years
back."  He yawned.  "Keeping me single now.  That and my fear of
attachment.  I love it, though."

I nodded and thought that I understood.  Then I asked the question that
was burning in my mind.  "What did you find?  Is she all right?"

He shook his head slowly, then he spoke the words I hadn't wanted to
hear," I'm afraid there's a tumor.  I'm pretty certain that it's a
pilocytic astrocytoma, a kind of tumor that strikes the very young.
We'll confirm that after the surgery.  It's located in her cerebellum.
The tumor is large, and it's life-threatening.  I'm sorry to have to
give you that news."

I spent another night at the hospital with Jannie.  She fell asleep
holding my hand again.

Chapter Twenty-Nine

Early the next morning my beeper went off.  I made a call and got bad
news from Sandy Greenberg, a friend who works at Interpol headquarters
in Lyons, France.

A woman named Lucy Rhys-Cousins had been savagely murdered in a London
supermarket.  She was killed while her children looked on.  Sandy told
me the police in London suspected that the killer was her husband,
Geoffrey Shafer, a man I knew as the Weasel.

I couldn't believe it.  Not now.  Not the Weasel "Was it Shafer or
not?"  I asked Sandy.  "Do you know for certain?"

"It's him, Alex, though we won't confirm it for the press vermin.
Scotland Yard is positive.  The children recognized him.  Their Mad
Hatter daddy!  He killed their mother right before their eyes."  Months
before, Geoffrey Shafer had been responsible for Christine's
kidnapping.  He had also committed several grisly murders in the
Southeast section of Washington.  He'd preyed on the poor and
defenseless.  The news that he might be alive, and killing again, was
like a swift, sudden punch below the belt.  I knew it would be even
worse for Christine to learn about Shafer.

I called her at home from St.  Anthony's, but got her answering
machine.  I talked calmly to the machine.  "Christine, pick up if
you're there.  It's Alex.  Please, pick up.  It's important that I talk
to you."

Still, no one picked up at Christine's.  I knew that Shafer couldn't be
here in Washington and yet I worried about the possibility that he was.
It was his pattern to do the unexpected.  The goddamn Weasel!

I checked my watch.  It was seven a.m. It seemed too early for
Christine to have left for school.  I decided to head over to the
Sojourner Truth School anyway.  It wasn't far.

Chapter Thirty

As I drove there, I was thinking, Don't let this be happening.  Not
again!  Please, God, don't do this to her.  You can't do this.  You
wouldn't.

I parked near the school and dashed out of the car.  Then I found
myself running down the hall to Christine's corner office.  My heart
pounded dully in my chest.  My legs were unsure.  I could hear the
clicking of the word processor before I reached the door.

I peered inside.

I was relieved to see Christine there in her warm and fuzzy, thoroughly
cluttered office.  She was always intensely focused when she worked.
Not wanting to startle her, I stood and watched for a moment.  Then I
knocked gently on the door jamb.

"It's me,"I said in a soft voice.

Christine stopped typing and turned.  For just an instant, she looked
at me like she used to.  It melted me.  She had on a pair of navy-blue
trousers and a tailored yellow silk blouse.  She didn't look as if she
were going through a bad time, but I knew that she was.

"What are you doing here?"  she finally asked.  "I already heard it on
CNN this morning," she continued.  "I saw the glorious murder scene at
the market in London."  She shook her head, closed her eyes.

"Are you all right?"  I asked.

Christine snapped out an answer.  "I'm not all right!  I'm a million
miles from all right.  This news doesn't help.  I can't sleep nights. I
have nightmares all the time.  I can't concentrate during the day.  I
imagine terrible things happening to little Alex.  To Damon and Jannie
and Nana, and to you.  I can't make it stop!"

Her words cut right through me.  It was a terrible feeling not to be
able to help.  "I don't think he'll come back here," I said.

Anger flashed in Christine's eyes.  "You don't know that for sure."

"Shafer considers himself beyond us.  We aren't that important in his
fantasy world.  His wife was.  I'm surprised that he didn't murder the
kids too."

"You see, you're surprised.  Nobody knows for sure what these insane,
pathetic maniacs will do!  And now you're involved with more of them:
Depraved men who murder innocent hostages for no reason.  Because they
can."

I started to walk into the office but she raised her hand.  "Don't.
Please stay away from me."

Christine then rose from her chair and walked past me toward the
teachers' washroom.  She disappeared inside without looking back.

I knew she wouldn't come out not until she was sure I was gone.  As I
finally walked away, I was thinking that she hadn't asked about
Jannie.

Chapter Thirty-One

I stopped at St.  Anthony's Hospital again before I went to work.
Jannie was up and we had breakfast together.  She told me that I was
the best dad in the world and I said she was the best daughter.  Then I
told her about the tumor and that she needed to have surgery.  My
little girl cried in my arms.

Nana arrived, and Jannie was taken away for more tests.  There was
nothing I could do at the hospital for several hours.  I went off to
meet with the FBI again.  The job was always there.  Christine had told
me, Your work is chasing insane, pathetic maniacs.  There didn't seem
to be any end in sight.

Special Agent in Charge Cavalierre arrived precisely at eleven for her
briefing of the team at the Bureau's field office on Fourth Street in
Northwest.  It looked to me as if half the Bureau were there, and it
was an impressive sight, somewhat reassuring.

I was reminded that the bank-robbing crew demanded exactness.  Maybe
that was the reason why Kyle Craig felt Agent Cavalierre was right for
this case.  He'd told me that she was exacting and precise, one of the
most professional agents he'd seen in his years at the Bureau.  My
thoughts kept going back to the high-profile bank jobs and the murders.
Why did they want publicity, even infamy?  Were the robbers
preconditioning other bank employees and corporations for future
robberies?  Scaring the shit out of everyone so there would be no
resistance?  Or did the murders have to do with revenge?  It made sense
that one or more of the killers might have worked at a bank.  We were
chasing that lead with everything we had.

I peered around the over-crowded crisis room inside the FBI field
office.  Several partitions on one wall had been allotted to write-ups
and photos of suspects and witnesses.  Unfortunately, none of the
suspects were particularly hot.  Not even lukewarm.  The partitions
were titled, Tat Man," "Husband's Girlfriend," "Mustache."

Why didn't we have a single good suspect?  What should that be telling
us?  What were we all missing?

"Hi and good morning.  I want to thank everyone in advance for giving
up your weekend," Agent Cavalierre said with just the right amount of
irony and humor.  She was wearing khakis and a light purple T-shirt.
There was a tiny purple barrette in her hair.  She looked confident and
surprisingly relaxed.

"If you don't come in on Saturday," an agent with a droopy mustache
spoke up from the back of the room," don't bother to come in on
Sunday."

"You ever notice how the wise asses always sit in the back," Cavalierre
cracked, and then smiled convincingly.  She was as cool as they come.

She held up a thick blue folder," Everybody has a big bad file like
this one, containing past cases that might relate.  The Joseph
Dougherty robberies through the Midwest in the eighties were similar in
some ways.  There's also material on David Grandstaff, who masterminded
the largest single bank robbery in American history.  Of some interest,
Grandstaff was caught by the Bureau.  However, in our zealous efforts
to take him down, questionable tactics were used.  After a six-week
trial, a jury deliberated for all of ten minutes, then let Grandstaff
off.  To this day, the three million from the Tucson First National
Bank job hasn't been recovered."

There was a hand-wave and a question from the front of the room. "Where
is Mr.  Grandstaff now?"

"Oh, he's gone underground," said Agent Cavalierre.  "About six feet.
He isn't involved in these robberies, Agent Doud.  But he may have
helped inspire them.  The same goes for Joseph Dougherty.  Whoever did
these jobs might be aware of their handiwork.  As I've heard them say
in the movies, "He's a student of the game."  '

About half an hour into the meeting, Agent Cavalierre introduced me to
the other agents.

"Some of you already know Alex Cross from the DC police.  He's
Homicide, with a PhD in psychology.  Dr.  Cross is a forensic
psychologist.  He is a very good friend of Kyle Craig, by the way.  The
two of them are tight.  So whatever you might think of the Metro
police, or ADIC Craig, you'd better keep it to yourself."

She looked over at me.  "Actually, Dr.  Cross discovered the bodies of
Brianne and Errol Parker in DC.  That's as close as we have come to a
break in the case.  Notice how I'm careful to kiss Dr.  Cross's
butt."

I stood up and looked around the conference room as I spoke to the
agents," Well, I'm afraid the Parkers have gone underground too," I
said, and got a few laughs.  "Brianne and Enrol were small-timers, but
had served time for bank jobs.  We're checking on anyone they knew at
Lorton Prison.  So far, nothing has come of it.  Nothing much has come
of anything we've done, and that's disturbing.

"The Parkers were competent thieves, but not as organized as whoever
brought them in and then decided to kill them.  The Parkers were
poisoned, by the way.  I think the killer watched them die, and the
deaths were gruesome.  The killer may have had sex with Brianne Parker
after she was dead.  This is just a guess right now, but I don't think
this mess is just about bank robberies."

Chapter Thirty-Two

The Mastermind couldn't sleep!  Too many unwelcome thoughts were
buzzing around like a swarm of angry wasps invading his already
overwrought brain.  He had been severely victimized, driven to this
intolerable state.  He needed revenge.  He'd dedicated his life to it
-every waking moment of the past four years.

; The Mastermind finally rose up from his bed.  He sat slumped over his
desk, waiting for the waves of nausea to pass, waiting for his goddamn
hands to stop trembling.  This is my pitiful life, he thought.  I

f, despise it, I despise everything about it, every breath I take.

Finally, he began to write the hate mail that had been on his mind as
he lay in bed.  , ' Attention of the Chairman, Citibank

This is a wake-up call, and it's serious.  The consequences to Citibank
are dire.

You think that you're safe from the little people, but you're not
safe.

My hand is shaking as I write this.  My whole body trembles with
outrage.

My banker is asleep at the switch.  For a'personal banker, "she is
about as impersonal as one of the gray partitions in her cubicle
office.  I had always thought bankers were smart, and buttoned-up.  How
is it possible, then, that on numerous occasions I have had annoying,
insane, egregious errors made on my account?

I requested a simple transfer of money between funds: IMMA to checking.
It didn't get done in a timely manner.

When I recently moved, my change of address was not handled properly.
Three months have passed, and I still haven't received any of my
statements.  It turns out the address was never changed and my
statements are going to the wrong address.

After all of these insults, after all of these mistakes by your
busy-doing-nothing employees, your bank has the nerve, the gall, to
deny me a personal loan.  The most intolerable part is to have to sit
there and listen to little Miss Princeton Priss turning me down with
insincerity and condescension dripping in her voice.

I judge service organizations on a ten scale.  I expect 9.9999 out of
ten.  Your bank fails miserably.

The little people will have their day.

He reread the letter and thought it wasn't too bad not for
two-something in the morning.  No, actually the letter was good.

He would do an edit, then sign, and finally deposit it in his file
cabinet as he did with all the other letters.  They were far too
dangerous and incriminating to actually send through the federal mail
system.

Goddamnit, he hated the banks with a passion!  Insurance companies!
Self-important investment houses!  Cheeky Internet firms!  The
government!  The big boys and girls had to go down.  And they would.
The little people would finally have their day.

Chapter Thirty-Three

I had promised Jannie something when I left her that morning.  My most
solemn oath was that I would stop at Big Mike Giordano's for pizza
take-out.

I was juggling a hot box in my hands when I entered her room at the
hospital.  She wouldn't be able to eat much, but Dr.  Petito said a
slice would be fine.

"Delivery," I said as I waltzed into the room.

"Hooray!  Hooray!"she cheered from her bed," You saved me from this
awful, dreadful hospital food.  Thank you, Daddy.  You are the
greatest."

Jannie didn't look sick; she didn't look as if she needed to be at St.
Anthony's.  I wished that were so.  I already had the essential
information on her operation.  The total time for prep and the surgery
would be between eight and ten hours.  The surgeon would dissect the
tumor and a piece would be used for a biopsy.  Until the surgery, her
condition was stabilized with Dilantin.  The operation was set for
eight a.m. tomorrow.

"You wanted olives and anchovies, right?"  I teased her as I opened the
pizza box.

"You got that wrong, Mr.  Delivery Man.  Better take that nasty pie
right back to the store if it has those slimy little anchovies on it,"
she said, giving me the evil eye she must have learned from her
great-grandmother.

"He's just teasing you," Nana said and gave me a softer version of the
squinty-eyed look.

Jannie shrugged," I know it, Nana.  I'm teasing him back.  It's our
thing, doo, doo.  Do what you wanna do."  She sang the old pop tune and
smiled.

"I like anchovies," Damon said, just to be controversial.  "They're
real salty."

"You would."  She frowned at her brother.  "I think you might have been
an anchovy in another life."

We were laughing, just like always, as we dug into the extra-cheese
pizza and milk.  We exchanged news of our days.  Jannie held center
court again, elaborately describing her second CAT scan, which had
lasted half an hour.  Then she proclaimed, "I've decided to become a
doctor.  My decision is final.  I'll probably go to Johns Hopkins like
Daddy did."

Nana and Damon finally got up to leave around eight.  They'd been at
the hospital since just after three when he got out of school.

Jannie announced," Daddy's staying for a while extra because he had to
work, and I didn't see enough of him today."  She motioned for Nana to
give her a hug and they held on to each other for a long moment.  Nana
whispered something private in Jannie's ear, and she nodded that she
understood.

Then Jannie waved Damon over to her bedside.  "Give me a big hug and a
kiss," she commanded.

Damon and Nana Mama left with a lot of bye-byes, and extra waves, and
see-you-tomorrows, and brave smiles.  Jannie sat there with her cheeks
wet and shiny, crying and smiling at the same time.

"Actually, I sort of like this," she told them," You know that I have
to be the center of attention.  And everybody stop worrying I am going
to be a doctor.  In fact, from now on, you all can call me Dr.
Jannie."

"Goodnight, Dr.  Jannie.  Sweet dreams."  Nana spoke softly from the
doorway," I'll see you tomorrow, darling girl."

"Night," Damon said.  He turned away, then turned back.  "Oh, all right
Dr.  Jannie."

She and I were quiet for a few moments after Nana and Damon left.  I
came over and put my arm around her.  I think that the parting scene
had been too much for both of us.  I sat on the edge of the hospital
bed, and I held her as if she would break.  We stayed like that for a
long time, talking a little bit, but mostly just holding on to each
other.

I was surprised when I saw that Jannie had fallen fast asleep in my
arms again.  That's when the tears finally started to roll from my
eyes.

Chapter Thirty-Four

I stayed in the hospital with Jannie all night.  I was as saddened and
afraid as I've ever been; the fear was a living thing constricting my
chest.  I slept some, but not much.  I thought about the bank robberies
a little just to put my mind somewhere else.  Innocent people had been
savagely murdered and that hit home with me and everybody else.

I also thought about Christine.  I loved her, couldn't help it, but I
believed she had made up her mind about the two of us.  I couldn't
change it.  She didn't want to be with a homicide detective; and I
probably couldn't be anything else.

Jannie and I were both awake around five the next morning.  Her room
looked out on an expansive sun roof and a small, flowering garden.  We
sat quietly and watched the sunrise through the window.  It looked so
stunningly beautiful and serene that it made me sad all over again.
What if this was our last sunrise together?  I didn't want to think
like that, but I couldn't help it.

"Don't worry, Daddy," Jannie said, reading my face like the little
necromancer she can be sometimes.  "There'll be lots of pretty sunrises
in my life ... I am a little scared, though.  Truth be told."

"Truth be told,"I said.  "That's the way it always has to be between
us."

"Okay.  So I'm very scared,"Jannie said in a tiny voice.

"Me too, little girl."

We held hands and stared at the glorious orangey-red sun.  Jannie was
very quiet.  It took all of my willpower to keep from breaking up.  I
started to choke and hid it with a false yawn that I was sure didn't
fool her.

"What happens this morning?"  Jannie finally asked in a whisper.

"The rest of the pre-op work-up," I told her.  "Maybe another blood
test."

She wrinkled her nose.  "They're vampires here, you know.  It's why I
made you stay the night."

"Good thinking on your part.  I fought off a few dastardly attacks in
the wee hours.  Didn't want to wake you.  They'll probably give you
your very first shave."

Jannie put both hands over her head.  "No!"

"Just a little in the back.  It will look cool."

She continued to look horrified," Yeah, right.  You think so?  Why
don't you get a shave on the back of your head too.  Then we can both
look cool."

I grinned at her.  "I will if you want me to."

Dr.  Petito walked into Jannie's room and heard us trying to cheer each
other up.

"You're number one on our list," he told her and smiled.

Jannie puffed up her little chest," See that?  I'm number one."

They took Jannie away from me at five minutes past seven in the
morning.

Chapter Thirty-Five

I held a special image in my mind of Jannie dancing with Rosie the cat,
singing "Roses are Red."  I let it play over and over again that long,
terrible morning at St.  Anthony's.  I suspect that waiting in
hospitals is as close as we get to being in hell before our time, or at
least in purgatory.  Nana, Damon, and I didn't talk much the whole
time.  Sampson and Jannie's aunts came by for short stints.  They were
devastated too.  It was just awful.  The worst hours of my life.

Sampson took Nana and Damon to the cafeteria to get something to eat,
but I wouldn't leave.  There was no word of how Jannie was doing.
Everything at the hospital felt unreal to me.  Images of Maria's death
came flashing back to me.  After my wife was wounded in a senseless
drive-by shooting, she had been brought to St.  Anthony's too.

At a few minutes past five, the neurologist, Dr.  Petito, walked into
the waiting room where we were gathered.  I saw him before he saw us. I
felt ill.  Suddenly, my heart was racing, thudding loudly.  I couldn't
tell anything from his face, other than that he looked tired. He saw
us, waved a hand, and walked our way.

He was smiling, and I knew it was good.

"We got it," Dr.  Petito said as soon as he reached us.  He shook my
hand, then Nana's, and Damon's.  "Congratulations."

"Thank you," I whispered as I held his hand tightly, 'for all your
sacrifices."

About fifteen minutes later, Nana and I were allowed into the recovery
suite.  Suddenly I was feeling buoyant, pleasantly lightheaded.  Jannie
was the only patient in there.  We walked quietly to her bedside,
almost on tiptoes.  A gauze turban covered her little head.  She was
hooked up to monitors and an IV.

I took one hand.  Nana Mama took the other.  Our girl was okay; they
got it.

"I feel like I lived and went to heaven," Nana said to me and smiled.
"Don't you?"

Jannie stirred and began to wake up after about twenty-five minutes in
the recovery room.  Dr.  Petito was called and returned moments later.
He asked her to take some deep breaths, then try to cough.

"You have a headache, Jannie?"  he asked.

"I think so," she said.

Then she looked over at Nana and me.  She squinted first, then she
tried to open her eyes wide.  She was obviously still groggy.  "Hello,
Daddy.  Hello, Nana.  I knew you'd be in heaven too,"Jannie finally
said.

I turned around then, so that she could see what I'd done.

I had shaven a spot back there.  It was just like hers.

Chapter Thirty-Six

Two days later, I returned to the robbery-murders, a case that both
fascinated and repulsed me.  Work was still there, wasn't it?  The
investigation had survived without me.  On the other hand, no one had
been caught.  One of Nana's favorite sayings came to mind: If you're
going around in circles, maybe you're cutting corners.  Perhaps that
was the problem with the investigation so far.

I saw Betsey Cavalierre at the FBI office on Fourth Street.  She wagged
a finger at me, but she also smiled in a friendly way.  She had on a
tan blazer, blue T-shirt, jeans, and she looked good.  I was glad to
see her.  That first smile of hers seemed to finally break the ice
between us.

'You should have told me about your little girl the operation.
Everything okay, Alex?  You haven't slept much, have you?"

"The doctor said he got it all.  She's a tough little girl.  This
morning she asked me when we could start our boxing lessons again.  I'm
sorry I didn't tell you before.  I wasn't myself."

She waved off my last few words.  'I'm just happy that your daughter is
fine, "she said.  "I can see the relief on your face."

I smiled.  "Well, I can feel it.  It brought lots of things into focus
for me.  Let's go to work."

Betsey winked.  "I've been here since six."

"Show-off,"I said.

I sat down at the desk I was using and started to look through the
mountain of paperwork that had already accumulated.  Agent Cavalierre
was at the desk across from mine.  I was glad to be back on the line.
One or more killers were out there murdering bank tellers, managers,
families.  I wanted to help stop it if I could.

An hour or so later, I looked up and saw Agent Cavalierre staring my
way with a blank look on her face.  She'd been lost in her thoughts, I
suppose.

"There's someone I need to see," I said.T should have thought of him
before today.  He left Washington for a while.  Went to Philly, New
York, Los Angeles.  Now he's back.  He's robbed a lot of banks, and
he's violent."

Betsey nodded.  "I'd love to meet him.  Sounds like a swell guy."

It probably had something to do with our scarcity of solid leads that
she went with me that morning.  We rode in her car to a fleabag hotel
on New York Avenue.  The Doral was a decrepit, paint-peeling flophouse.
A trio of skinny, shopworn prostitutes in miniskirts were just leaving
the hotel as we arrived.  A retro-looking pimp in a gold lame zoot suit
leaned against a yellow Cadillac convertible, picking at his teeth.

"You take me to all the nicest places," Agent Cavalierre said as she
climbed out of the car.  I noticed she was wearing an ankle holster.
Dressed for success.

Chapter Thirty-Seven

Tony Brophy was living the vida loca up on the fourth floor of the
Doral.  The hotel desk clerk said he'd been staying there for a week,
and that he was 'a very troubled dude, not a nice person, and a serious
asshole."

"I don't think this place is connected with the Doral in Miami," Betsey
said as we took the back stairs.  "What a dump."

"Wait until you meet Brophy.  He fits right in here."

We arrived unannounced at his room and unholstered our guns.  Brophy
was a legitimate suspect in the robbery-murders.  He fit the profile. I
rapped my knuckles on a scarred, bare wood door.

"What?"a gruff voice called from the inside.  "I said what?"

"Washington PD.  Open up," I called out.

I heard movement, then someone snapped a few locks on the other side.
The door slowly opened and Brophy filled the narrow doorway.  He was
six four and close to two sixty, a lot of it bulging muscle.  His dark
hair was shaved with neat razor lines to the scalp.

"Asshole DC cop," he said a non filter cigarette hanging from his lips.
"And who's this lovely asshole with you?"

Actually, I can talk for myself," Betsey said to Brophy.

Tony Brophy grinned down at her.  He apparently liked to get a response
to his rudeness.  "Okay.  Speak.  Woof."

'I'm Senior Agent Cavalierre.  FBI," Betsey said.

"Senior agent!  Let's see, what's the line from all the cop shows on
TV?  We can do this the hard way or we can do it the easy way," he said
and showed off surprisingly even white teeth.  He was wearing black
paramilitary pants, off-white shower thongs, no shirt.  His arms and
upper torso were covered with jailhouse tats and curled black hair.

"I vote for the hard way.  But that's just me," Betsey said.

Brophy turned to a skinny blonde who was sitting on a lime-green retro
couch in front of a TV.  She wore a loose-fitting FUBU shirt over her
underwear.

"You like her as much as I do, Nora?"  Brophy asked the blonde.

The woman shrugged, apparently uninterested in anything but Rosie
O'Donnell.  She was probably high.  Her hair was stringy, with the
bangs gelled down to her forehead.  She had barbed-wire tattoos on both
ankles, wrists and around her throat.

Brophy looked back at Betsey Cavalierre and me.  "I take it we have
business to discuss.  So, the mystery lady is FBI.  That's very good.
Means you can afford any information I might have."

Betsey shook her head.  "I'd rather beat it out of you."

Tony Broph," s dark eyes came alive again.  "I really like her."

We followed Brophy to a lopsided, wooden table in a tiny kitchen.  He
sat straddled on a chair, the backrest wedged against his hairy stomach
and chest.  We had to arrive at a financial agreement before he would
give up anything.  He was right about one thing Betsey Cavalierre's
budget was a lot bigger than mine.

"This has to be good information, though," she warned.

He nodded confidently, smugly.  "This is the best you can buy, baby.
Top of the line.  Y'see, I met with the man behind those nasty jobs in
Maryland and Virginia.  Want to know what he's like?  Well, he's one
cold motherfucker.  And remember who's telling you that."

Brophy stared hard at Betsey and me.  He definitely had our interest.

"He called himself Mastermind," Brophy said in a slow Florida drawl.
"He was dead serious about it.  Mastermind.  You believe it?

"The two of us met at the Sheraton Airport Hotel.  He contacted me
through a guy I know from new York.  "Brophy went on," The so-called
Mastermind knew things about me.  He ticked off my strengths, then
weaknesses.  He had me down to a T. He even knew about the lovely Nora
and her habit."

"Think he was a cop?  All the information he had about you?"  I asked
Brophy.

Brophy grinned broadly.  "No.  Too smart.  He might have talked to some
cops, though, considering he knew everything.  That's why I stayed and
listened to the dude.  That, plus he told me this was a high-six-figure
opportunity for me.  That caught my interest."

All Agent Cavalierre and I had to do now was listen.  Once Brophy got
started there was no stopping him.

"What did he look like?"I asked.

"You want to know what he looked like?  That's the million-dollar
question, Regis Philbin.  Let me set the scene for you.  When I walked
into the room at his hotel, there were bright lights shining at me.
Like Hollywood premiere movie lights.  I couldn't see shit."

"Not even shapes?"  I asked Brophy.  "You must have seen something."

"His silhouette.  He had long hair.  Or maybe he was wearing a wig. Big
nose, big ears.  Like a car with the doors open.  We talked and he said
he'd be in touch but I never heard from him again.  Guess he didn't
want me for his crew."

"Why not?"  I asked Brophy.  It was a serious question.  "Why wouldn't
he want someone like you?"

Brophy made a pistol with his hand and shot me.  "He wants killers,
dude.  I'm not a killer.  I'm a lover.  Right, Agent Cavalierre?"

Chapter Thirty-Eight

What Brophy had told us was scary and it couldn't get out to the press.
Someone who called himself the Mastermind was out there interviewing
and hiring professional killers.  Only killers.  What was he planning
next?  More bank-hostage jobs?  What the hell was he thinking?

After I finished work that night, I went to St.  Anthony's.  Jannie was
doing fine, but I stayed another night with her anyway.  My home away
from home.  She had begun calling me her'roomie."

The next morning I waded through files on disgruntled former employees
of Citibank, First Virginia, and First Union; and also records of
anyone who had made any kind of serious threat against the banks.  The
mood in the FBI field office was quiet desperation.  There was none of
the buzz and excitement that went along with leads, clues, progress of
any kind.  We still didn't have a single good suspect.

Threats and crank communications to banks are usually handled by an
in-house investigative department.  General hate mail is most often
from people who are denied loans or have had their homes foreclosed.
Hate mail is as likely to come from a woman as from a man.  According
to the psychological profiles I read that morning, it was usually
someone having work, financial, or domestic problems.  Occasionally,
there were serious threats because of a bank's labor practice, its
affiliations with foreign countries such as South Africa, Iraq,
Northern Ireland.  Mail at the major banks was X-rayed in the mailroom,
and there were frequent false alarms.  Musical Christmas cards
sometimes set off the machines.

The process was exhausting, but necessary.  It was part of the job.  I
glanced over at Betsey Cavalierre around one.  She was right there with
the rest of us, seated at a plain metal desk.  She was nearly hidden
behind the stacks of paper.

en

"I'm going to run out again for a while," I told her.  "There's a guy I
want to check out.  He's made some threats against Citibank.  He lives
nearby."

She put down her pen," I'll go with you.  If you don't mind.  Kyle says
he trusts your hunches."

"Look where it got Kyle," I said and smiled.

"Exactly," Betsey said and winked.  "Let's go."

I had read and reread Joseph Petrillo's file.  It stood out from the
others.  Every week for the past two years, the chairman of Citibank in
New York had received an angry, even vicious letter from Petrillo.  He
had worked in security for the bank from January of 1990 until two
years ago.  He'd been fired because of budget cuts that affected every
department in the bank, not just his.  Petrillo didn't accept the
explanation, or anything else the bank tried to make him go away.

There was something about the tone of the letters that alarmed me. They
were well written and intelligent, but the letters showed signs of
paranoia, possibly even schizophrenia.  Petrillo had been a captain in
Vietnam before he worked for the bank.  He'd seen combat.  The police
had been to see him about the crank mail, but no charges had been
filed.

"This must be one of those famous feelings of yours," Betsey said as we
rode to the suspect's house on Fifth Avenue.

"It's one of those famous bad feelings," I said.  "The detective who
interviewed him a few months ago had a bad feeling too.  The bank
refused to go any further with the complaint."

Unlike its namesake in New York, Fifth Avenue in DC was a low-rent area
on the edge of gentrifying Capitol Hill.  It had originally been mostly
Italian-American, but was now racially mixed.  Rusted, dated cars lined
the street.  A BMW sedan, fully loaded, stood out from the other
vehicles.  Probably a drug dealer.

"Same old, same old," Betsey said.

"You know the area?"  I asked as we turned on to the street where
Petrillo lived.

She nodded and her brown eyes narrowed.  "A certain number of years
ago, that number not to be disclosed at this time, I was born not far
from here.  Four blocks to be exact."

I glanced over at Betsey and saw a grim look on her face as she stared
out the windshield.  She had let me in on a little piece of her past:
She'd grown up on the wrong side of the tracks in Washington.  She
didn't look like it.

"We don't have to follow up on this hunch,"I told her.  "I can check it
out later.  It's probably nothing, but Petrillo lives so close to the
field office."

She shook her head, shrugged.  "You read a lot of files today.  This is
the one that popped out for you.  We should follow up on it.  I'm fine
being here."

We stopped in front of a corner store where local kids had probably
been hanging out for the past few decades.  The current group looked a
little retro in their choice of loose-fitting jeans, dark T-shirts,
slicked-back hair.  They were all white.

We crossed the street and walked toward the end of the block.  I
pointed out a small yellow house.  "That's Petrillo's."

"Let's go talk to the man," she said.  "See if he's robbed any banks
lately."

We climbed pockmarked concrete steps to a gray metal screen door.  I
knocked on the door frame and called out, "DC police.  I'd like to talk
to Joseph Petrillo."

I turned to Betsey, who was standing to my left, down one of the stone
stairs.  I'm not even sure what I was going to say to her.

Whatever it was I never got it out.

There was a tremendous gun blast probably a shotgun.  Very loud,
deafening, scarier than a bolt of lightning.  It came from inside the
house, not far from the front door.

Betsey screamed.

Chapter Thirty-Nine

I dived headfirst off the porch, taking Betsey with me.  We lay on the
lawn, scrambling to get our guns, breathing hoarsely.

"Jesus Christ!  Jesus!"  she gasped.  Neither of us had been hit, but
we were scared shitless.  I was also angry at myself for being careless
at the door.

"Damn it!  I wasn't expecting him to shoot at us."

"Last time I ever doubt your gut feelings," she whispered.  "I'll call
for back-up."

"Call Metro first,"I told her.  "This is our city."

We crouched beside an untrimmed hedge and several out-of-control rose
bushes.  Both of us had our pistols ready.  I held mine raised skyward
along the side of my face.  Was this the Mastermind in here?  Had we
found him?

Across the street, the teens in front of the deli were brazenly
checking out the action, more specifically, where the gunshot had come
from.  They had wide-eyed expressions and were watching us as if we
were characters in an episode of NYPD Blue or Law & Order.

"Crazy fuckin' Joe," one of them shouted loudly, his hands cupped
around his mouth.

"At least he's stopped shooting for the moment," Betsey whispered.
"Crazy fucking Joe."

"Unfortunately, he still has his scatter-gun.  He can shoot some more
if he wants to."

I shifted around on the ground so I could see the front of the house a
little better.  There was no hole in the door.  Nothing.

"Joseph Petrillo!"  I shouted again.

No response came from inside the house.

"DC police!"  I called out.  You waiting for me to show my face again,
Crazy Joe?  You want a little better target this time?

I inched up closer to the porch, but I stayed down below the railing.

The kids across the street had started mimicking me.  "Mr.  Petrillo?
Crazy Mr.  Petri," ," o?You okay in there, you nut so asshole?"

Help arrived minutes later.  Two cruisers with their sirens wailing.
Then two more.  Then a couple of FBI sedans.  Everybody was armed to
the gills and ready for big trouble.  Blockades were set up up and down
the street.  The houses across the way were vacated, as was the corner
store.  A TV news helicopter dropped by for an unexpected and unwelcome
visit a fly-by.

I had participated in this kind of shoot'm-up scene more times than I
liked to think about.  Not good.  We waited another twenty minutes
before a SWAT team arrived.  The blue knights.  They wore full body
armor and used a battering ram to take down the front door.  Then we
went inside.

I didn't have to go, but I entered the house behind the primary.  I had
on a Kevlar vest and so did Agent Cavalierre.  I kind of liked that she
went in with us.

It was weirder than weird inside.  The living room of the house looked
like the attic of a library: Musty, coverless books, tattered
magazines, and old newspapers were piled as high as seven feet and took
up most of the room.  There were cats everywhere, dozens of them.  They
meowed loudly, pathetically.  The cats looked as if they were being
starved to death.

Joseph Petrillo was there too.  He lay in a pile of old copies of
Newsweek, Time, Life, and People magazines.  He must have toppled them
when he fell backwards.  His mouth was open in what looked like a smile
half a smile anyway.

He had blown himself away with a shotgun.  It was on the floor near his
bloodied head.  Most of the right side of his face was gone.  Blood was
splattered on the wall, an armchair, some of the books.  One of the
cats was fastidiously licking his hand.

I looked down at the overturned books and papers near the body.  I
noticed a brochure for Citibank.  Also several of Petrillo's bank
statements.  The statements showed a balance of $7,711 three years
before, but it was now down to $61.

Betsey Cavalierre was crouched near the wasted body.  I sensed that she
was trying hard not to be sick.  A couple of the mangy cats were

Q8

rubbing against her leg, but she seemed oblivious to them.

"This couldn't be the Mastermind," she said.

I looked into her eyes and saw fear, but mostly sadness there.  "No,
I'm sure it isn't, Betsey.  Not poor Petrillo and his starving cats."

Chapter Forty

I finally got to go home to my own bed for a night.  Jannie took pity
on me for the sore back I was developing sleeping in the chair in her
room.  I was fast asleep at home when the phone rang.  I picked up
after a couple of loud rings.

It was Christine.

"Alex, there's someone in the house.  I think it's Shafer.  He's come
here to get me.  Please help me!"

"Call the police.  I'm on my way," I said into the phone.  "You and
Alex get out of there nowY

It usually takes me close to half an hour to get out to Mitchellville.
I got there in less than fifteen minutes that night.  Lights were
blazing all over the street.  Two police cruisers were parked in front
of Christine's townhouse.  It was raining hard.

I jumped out of the Porsche and ran to the porch.  A burly patrolman in
a dark blue rain-slicker raised his hand to stop me.

"I'm Detective Alex Cross, Metro DC.  I'm a good friend of Christine
Johnson."

He nodded and didn't make me show my badge.  "She's inside with the
other officers.  She's fine, Detective.  So is the little boy."

I could already hear little Alex crying in there.  As I entered the
living room I saw two patrolmen with Christine.  She was crying, but
also talking loudly to the policemen.

"He's here!  I'm telling you.  Geoffrey Shafer the Weasel!  He's here
somewhere!"  she yelled and ran both hands through her hair.

The baby was wailing in his Pack 'n Play.  I went over and picked him
up.  The boy quieted down as soon as he was in my arms.  I walked over
to Christine and the two patrolmen.

"Tell them about Geoffrey Shafer," Christine pleaded with me.  Tell
them what's already happened.  How crazy he is!"

I told the officers who I was and then the story of Christine's
horrific kidnapping more than a year before in Bermuda.  I tried to
give a short version, and when I was finished they nodded.  They got
it, understood.

"I remember the case from the newspapers," one of them said.  "Trouble
is, there's no evidence that anyone was here tonight.  We've checked
all the doors, windows, and the grounds."

"Would you mind if I took a look around?"  I asked.

"Not at all.  We'll wait here with Ms Johnson.  Take your time,
Detective."

I gave the baby over to Christine and then I checked the house very
carefully.  I looked everywhere, but I didn't find any sign of entry. I
walked the grounds, and even though it was wet, saw no evidence of
fresh footprints.  I doubted that Shafer had been there that night.

When I returned to the living room, Christine and the baby were cuddled
up quietly on the couch.  The two patrolmen were waiting outside on the
front porch.  I went out and talked to them.

"Can I be honest?"  one of them asked me.  "Could Ms Johnson have had a
bad dream?  It sounds like some kind of nightmare or something.  She's
sure this guy Shafer was in her house.  In the bedroom.  We saw nothing
to support that, Detective.  The doors were locked.  The alarm was
still on.  Does she have nightmares?"

"Sometimes, she does.  Lately.  Thank you for your help.  I'll take it
from here."

After the squad cars drove off, I went back inside to be with
Christine.  She seemed a little calmer now, but her eyes were so damn
sad.

"What's happening to me?  "she asked," I want my life back.  ," can't
get away from him."

She wouldn't let me hold her, not even then.  She didn't want to hear
that she might have been dreaming about Geoffrey Shafer, the Weasel.
Christine did thank me for coming, but then she told me to go home.

"There's nothing you can do for me," she said.

I kissed the baby, and then I went home.

Chapter Forty-One

During a robbery, the new members called themselves Mr.  Blue, Mr.
White, Mr.  Red, and Ms Green.  That morning at seven precisely, Mr.
Blue was in position in the thick fir woods behind a house in the
Woodley Park section of Washington.

As he'd done for the past three mornings, the bank manager, Martin
Casselman, left his home at around twenty past seven.  Casselman peered
around the neighborhood before he got into his car.  It was possible he
was spooked by the recent bank robberies in Maryland and Virginia.
Still, most people never really thought it could happen to them.

Casselman's wife was a teacher at Dumbarton Oaks High School.  She
taught English, which Mr.  Blue had always hated.  Mrs.  C would be
leaving for work sometime closer to eight.  The Casselmans were both
organized and predictable, which made the job simpler.

Blue crouched beside an old elm that was dying; he waited for a call on
his cell phone.  Everything was on schedule so far, and he felt
relaxed.  Approximately eight minutes after Martin Casselman left, the
phone rang.  He pushed the Talk button.

"Blue.  Talk to me."

"Mr.  C has arrived for our meeting.  He's in the parking lot as we
speak.  Over."

"Roger that.  Everything looks good for my meeting with Mrs.  C."

No sooner had Blue pushed End on the phone than he saw Victoria
Casselman step out of the front door of the house and lock up.  She had
on a pink suit and reminded him of Farrah Fawcett in her glory days.

"Where the hell is she going?"  he said, surprised.  There weren't
supposed to be any surprises on this job.  The Mastermind had
supposedly scoped everything out perfectly.  This wasn't perfection.
Mr.  Blue started to walk fast through the tangle of woods and high
weeds separating him from the Casselman house.  He could already see
that he wasn't going to make it in time.

Mistake.

Mine, or hers?

Both of ours!  She's leaving too early this morning; I'm out of
position!

He began to run toward Hawthorne Street, but she was already inside her
black Toyota Tercel and backing out of the driveway.  If she turned
right, everything was completely screwed.  If she turned left, he still
had a chance to save the day.  C'mon, Farrah honey, go left!

Mr.  Blue was trying to think of something to shout to her -something
that would stop her cold.  What, though?  Think.  Think.

Good girl!  She had turned left, but he still didn't think he could get
to the freaking road in time to stop her.

He started to sprint, head down.  He felt a burst of sudden, deep heat
roaring through his chest.  He couldn't remember the last time he'd had
to run at full tilt like this.

"Hey!  Hey!  Can you help me!"he called at the top of his voice,"
Please help me!  Help!"

Victoria Casselman's head of teased blonde hair turned when she heard
the shouts coming on her street.  She slowed the car a little, but she
still didn't stop completely.

He had to stop her.

"My wife's having a baby!"  Blue shouted.  "Please help.  My wife's
having a baby."

He sighed with incredible relief when he saw the black sedan stop in
the middle of the road.  He hoped that no busybody neighbor was
watching from one of the houses lined up and down the street.  It
didn't matter, though.  He had to stop her one way or the other.  He
was still gasping as he ran up to the car.

"What's the matter with you?  Where's your wife?  "Victoria Casselman
called to him through the open window.

Mr.  Blue continued to wheeze until he was right up beside the car.
Then he pulled out a Sig-Sauer pistol and whacked her jaw with the
barrel.  Victoria Casselman's head snapped to the side and she cried
out in pain.

"We're going back to the house!"  he shouted as he jumped into the car.
He held the gun to her forehead.

"Where the hell were you going at seven-thirty?  Oh just shut up.  I

don't really care.  You made a mistake, Victoria.  You made a bad
mistake."  It was all Mr.  Blue could do not to shoot her dead in the
front seat of her car.

me;

Chapter Forty-Two

A robbery was in progress at the Chase Manhattan Bank branch near the
Omni Shoreham Hotel in Washington.  Betsey Cava-lierre and I didn't
talk much on the ride from the FBI offices to the bank.  We were both
dreading what we might find.

Betsey was all business.  She'd placed a siren on the roof of her car
and we raced through Washington.  It was raining again and streaks of
water hammered the car's roof and windshield.  The city of Washington
was crying.  This nightmare was deepening and seemed to be
accelerating.  It was as scary and unpredictable as any multiple-murder
case I had worked before.  It didn't make sense to me.  A bank-robbing
crew, or possibly a couple of crews, was operating like a gang of mass
killers.  The press coverage was massive and overwhelming; the public
was terrified, and had a right to be; the banking industry was up in
arms that the robberies and murders hadn't been stopped.

I was shaken from my reverie by the sound of police sirens wailing up
ahead.  The shrill chorus made the hairs on the back of my neck stand
up.  Then I saw the blue-and-white sign for the Chase Bank branch.

Betsey stopped about a block away on Twenty-eighth Street.  It was as
close as we could get.  Even with the heavy rain, there were a hundred
spectators, dozens of ambulances, police cruisers, even a fire truck
had arrived on the scene.

We ran through the hissing downpour toward a modest, red brick building
on the corner of Calvert.  I was a few strides ahead of Betsey, but she
was moving.

"Metro police.  Detective Cross," I said and flashed my badge at a
patrolman who tried to block the way into the bank parking lot.  The
patrolman saw the gold shield and stepped aside.

The assorted police and emergency sirens continued to wail loudly and I
wondered why.  The moment I walked inside the bank lobby, I knew.  I
counted five bodies.  Tellers and executives: Three women, two men. All
had been shot dead.  It was another massacre, possibly the worst one so
far.

"Why?  Jesusl'Agent Cavalierre muttered at my side.  For a second she
grabbed on to my arm, but then realized what she had done and let go.

An FBI agent hurried up to us.  His name was James Walsh and I
remembered him from the first meeting at the field office.  "Five are
dead here.  They're all on staff, bank employees."

"Hostages at home?"  Betsey asked.

Walsh shook his head," The manager's wife is dead too.  Shot at close
range.  Executed for no reason we can figure out... Betsey, they left a
survivor at the bank.  He has a message for you and Detective Cross.
It's from someone called the Mastermind."

Chapter Forty-Three

The survivor's name was Arthur Strickland, and he was being kept in the
slain manager's office, as far away as possible from the press.  He was
the bank's security guard.

Strickland was a tall, slender, well-built man in his late forties.
Although physically impressive, he looked to be in a state of shock.
Beads of perspiration covered his face, his thick mustache.  His light
blue uniform shirt was entirely soaked through.

Betsey went up to the bank guard and spoke very softly,
compassionately.  "I'm Senior Agent Cavalierre from the FBI.  I'm in
charge of this investigation, Mr.  Strickland.  This is Detective Cross
from the DC police.  I hear that you have a message for us?"

The powerful-looking man suddenly broke down.  He sobbed into his
hands.  It took him a minute or so before he pulled himself together
and was able to talk.

"They were nice people that got killed here today.  They were my
friends, "he said," I was supposed to protect them, and our customers,
of course."

"It's a terrible thing that happened, but it's not your fault," Betsey
said to the guard.  She tried to be kind, to calm him, and she was
doing a good job.  "Why did the gunmen kill them?  Why not you?"

The guard shook his head in dismay," They held me in the lobby with the
others.  Two of'm did the job.  All of us were told to stay face down
on the floor.  They said they had to be out the bank quarter past
eight.  No later than that.  No mistakes, they said several times.  No
alarms.  No panic buttons."

"They were late getting out of the bank?"  I asked Arthur Strickland.

"No, sir, "the guard said to me.  "That's just it.  They could have
made it on time.  They didn't seem to want to.  They told me to stand
up.

I

thought they was going to shoot me right then.  I was in Vietnam, but I
was never this afraid."

"They gave you a message for us?"  I asked him.

"Yes, sir.  A message for both of you.  "You like this bank?"  one of
them asked me.  I said that I liked my job.  He called me a "dumb spade
asshole.  "Then he said that I was to be their messenger.  I should
tell FBI Agent Cavalierre and Detective Cross that there was a mistake
made at the bank.  He said there could be no more mistakes.  He
repeated that several times.  No more mistakes.  He said, "Tell them
the message is from the Mastermind," "Then they shot everybody else.
They shot them where they lay on the floor, in cold blood.  It's all my
fault.  I was the guard on duty at the bank.  I let it happen."

"No, Mr.  Srrickland.  "Betsey Cavalierre spoke softly to the bank
guard.  "You didn't.  We're the ones at fault, not you."

Chapter Forty-Four

There can be no more mistakes.  The Mastermind knew all about the FBI's
Betsey Cavalierre and Detective Cross.  He was on top of everything,
even the police officers assigned to the case.  They were part of his
plan now.

It was a gorgeous day for his excursion into the countryside outside
Washington.  The lilies and daffodils and sunflowers were in bloom, and
the sky was clear; it was bright china-blue, with just a couple of
cloud puffs placed symmetrically to the east and west.

The current bank-robbing crew was staying in a farmhouse just south of
Hayfield, Virginia.  It was a little more than eighty miles southwest
of Washington, almost in West Virginia.

He rounded a bend on an unpaved road and saw the rear end of Mr. Blue's
van jutting out of a faded red barn.  A pair of dogs were roaming in
the yard, biting at horseflies.  He didn't see any of the gang yet, or
their girlfriends, but he did hear their loud rock-and-roll music:
Guitar-heavy, southern-flavored rock that they played constantly,
morning to night.

He walked into the farmhouse living room, which had been remodeled to
resemble a loft.  He saw Mr.  Blue, Mr.  Red, Mr.  White, and their
girlfriends, including Ms Green.  He could smell coffee brewing.  A
broom was leaning against one wall, which meant they had cleaned up a
little before he arrived.  Next to the broom was a Heckler and Koch
Marksman's rifle.

"Hello, everybody," he said and waved shyly, his way.  He smiled, but
knew that they considered him a geek.  So be it.  Ms Green was looking
at him like he was a geek with the hots for her.

"Hey, mon professor," Blue said and gave him a light-hearted grin that
was so insincere it hurt.  The Mastermind wasn't fooled.  Mr.  Blue was
a stone-cold killer.  That was why he had been chosen for the First
Union and Chase robberies.  They were all killers, even the three
girls.  "Pizza," he held up two boxes and a paper bag," I brought
pizza. And some excellent Chianti,"

Chapter Forty-Five

Killjoy, he was thinking to himself.  Killing machine.

Killing time.

Killer idea.

Killing fields.

The Mastermind smiled thinly at his own obsessive word play.  It was
the kind of half-smile that didn't feel good on his face, though.  It
felt false and a little forced.  It was just past four o'clock, and it
was still brightly sunny outside.  He'd gone for a nice walk in the
fields.  He'd thought everything through.  Now he was returning to the
farmhouse.

He entered through the front screen door and let his eyes crawl over
the bodies.  The inhabitants of the farmhouse were dead, all six of
them.  Their bodies were strangely twisted and contorted, the way metal
can get in a firestorm.  He had seen that phenomenon once, after a fire
that raged through the hillsides outside Berkeley in California.  He'd
loved that: The sheer beauty of a natural disaster.

He stopped and studied the dead.  They were murderers, and they'd
suffered for it.  He'd used Marplan as the poison this time.
Interestingly, the antidepressant was most potent when ingested with
cheese or red wine, especially Chianti.  The odd chemical combination
induced a sharp increase in blood pressure followed by cerebral
hemorrhage, and finally circulatory collapse.  Voila.

He looked more closely at the dead and it was extraordinarily
fascinating.  Their pupils were dilated.  The mouths were open in
horribly twisted screams.  Bloated bluish tongues hung out of the sides
of the mouths.  Now he had to get them out of here.  He had to make the
bodies disappear, almost as if they had never existed.

A girl named Gersh Adamson was sprawled on the floor near the front
door.  She'd tried to run outside, hadn't she?  Good for her.  She was
Ms Green, a tiny blonde lady who said she was twenty-one, but who
looked no more than fifteen.  Her mouth was frozen in an anguished
scream that he simply loved.  He almost couldn't tear his eyes away
from Gersh Adamson's lips.

He figured that she was the lightest to carry; she probably weighed no
more than a hundred pounds.

"Hello, Ms Green.  I've always liked you, you know.  I'm a little
diffident, though.  I should say that I used to be shy.  I'm getting
over it."

He reached out and touched her small breasts.  He was surprised to find
that Ms Green wore a push-up bra under her blouse.  Not quite the
little dip pie-hippie she seemed to be.  He unbuttoned her blouse, then
pulled it off, and stared at her breasts.

He unbuttoned the dead girl's jeans.  Then he inserted a finger inside
her panties.  The flesh was a little cool.  She had a silver ring in
her belly button.  He touched it.  Pulled on it like a pop-top.

She was wearing satiny-gray platforms with high heels and he carefully
took those off her feet.  He pulled the tight jeans down and then
wriggled them off too.  Ms Green's toenails were painted bright blue.

The Mastermind unclasped the lacy push-up bra and kneaded her smallish
breasts.  He rubbed them together with his palms.  Then he pinched the
tiny, perfect nipples hard.  He'd wanted to do that, from the first
time he saw her.  He'd wanted to hurt her a little, or maybe a lot.

He looked out the farmhouse window, then around at the dead bodies
again.  "I'm not grossing any of you out, am I?"  he asked.

He dragged Ms Green by her bare feet to the faded rug at the center of
the room.  Then he took off his own trousers.  He was getting hard.  He
never got this way anymore.  Maybe the FBI was right: He might be a
pattern killer, after all.  Maybe he was just beginning to understand
who he really was.

"I'm a ghoul," the Mastermind said, then he pulled aside her panties
and thrust himself inside the dead woman's vagina.  "I'm crazy, Ms
Green, and that's the biggest joke of all.  I'm the one who's crazy. If
the police only knew.  What a great clue."

Book Three

Hanging With The Big Dogs

Chapter Forty-Six

Three days had passed without another robbery.  One of them was a
Saturday, and I got to spend the afternoon with the boy.  At around
six, I finally brought him back to Christine's.

Before we went inside, I carried little Alex around the flower garden
behind her townhouse in Mitchellville.  Her'country estate'I like to
call it.  The garden was glorious.  Christine had planted and nurtured
it herself.  It was filled with a variety of roses: Hybrid teas,
floribunda and grandiflora.  It reminded me of how she had been before
the kidnapping in Bermuda.  Everything about the garden was visually
pleasing.  Which was probably why it felt so damn sad to be there
without her.

I carried the boy easily on my hip, talking to him, pointing out the
manicured lawn, a weeping willow tree, the sky, the setting sun.  Then
I showed him the similarity in our faces: Nose to nose, eyes to eyes,
mouth to mouth.  Every few minutes I'd stop to kiss Alex's cheek or
neck or the top of his head.

"Smell the roses," I whispered.

I saw Christine hurrying out of the house a few minutes later.  I could
tell she had something on her mind.  Her sister Natalie trailed close
behind her.  For protection?  I had the feeling that they were about to
gang up on me.

"Alex, we have to talk," Christine said as she came up to me in the
garden," Natalie, could you take care of the baby for a few minutes?"

Reluctantly, I handed Alex over to Natalie.  It didn't sound like I had
a choice.  Christine had changed so much in the past months. Sometimes,
I felt as if I didn't even know her.  Maybe it all had to do with her
nightmares.  They didn't seem to be getting any better.

"I have to get out some things.  Don't say anything, please," she
began.

Chapter Forty-Seven

I bit down on my tongue.  This was the way it had been between us for
months.  I noticed that her eyes were red-rimmed.  She'd been crying.

"You're off on another murder case now, Alex.  I suppose that's good
-it's your life.  You're obviously very skilled at it."

I couldn't keep silent.  "I've offered to leave the police department,
to go into private practice.  I'd do that, Christine."

She frowned and shook her head.  "I'm so honored."

"I'm not trying to fight you,"I said.  "I'm sorry, go ahead.  I didn't
mean to interrupt."

"I have no life here in Washington anymore.  I'm always afraid.
Petrified is a better word.  I hate going into the school now.  I feel
as if my life has been taken away from me.  First George, and then what
happened in Bermuda.  I'm afraid that Shafer is coming back for me."

I had to speak.  "He's not, Christine."

"Don't say that!"  She raised her voice.  "You don't know.  You
can't!"

The air in my lungs was slowly being sucked away.  I wasn't sure where
Christine was going with this, but she seemed on the edge.  It was like
the night she'd had a nightmare that Geoffrey Shafer was in her
house.

'I'm moving away from the Washington area, "she said," I'll leave after
the school year.  I don't want you to know where I'm going.  I don't
want you looking for me.  Please don't try to be a detective with me,
Alex.  Or a shrink."

I couldn't believe what I'd heard.  I hadn't expected anything like
this.  I stood there speechless, just staring at Christine.  I don't
think I'd ever felt so devastated, so saddened and alone in my life.  I
felt hollowed-out and empty.

"What about the baby?"  I finally said in a whisper that came out
hoarse and strangled.

Tears suddenly welled in her beautiful eyes.  Christine began to sob,
and to shake.  Uncontrollably."I  can't take Alex with me.  Not the way
I am.  Not like this.  The baby has to stay with you and Nana for
now."

I started to speak, but nothing came out, not a word.  Christine held
eye contact with me briefly.  Her eyes were so sad, so hurt and
confused.  Then she turned away and walked back to her house.  She
disappeared inside.

Chapter Forty-Eight

I was angry and sad and I was holding it all inside.  I knew better
than to do that, which only made it worse.  Physician, heal thyself.

I happened to see my psychiatrist, Adele Finaly, in church on Sunday
morning.  We were attending the nine o'clock sen dee with our families.
We moved to the rear vestibule to talk.  Adele must have seen something
in my eyes.  She doesn't miss much and knows me well since I've been
seeing her for almost four years.

"Did Rosie the cat die or something?"  she asked and smiled.

"Rosie's just fine, Adele.  So am I. Thanks for your concern."

"Uh-huh.  Then why do you look like Ali the morning after he fought Joe
Frazier in Manila?  Can you please explain that for me?  Also, you
didn't shave for church."

"That's a nice dress,"I told her," The color looks good on you."

Adele frowned and would have none of it.  "Right.  Gray is definitely
not my color, Alex.  What's wrong?"

"Not a thing."

Adele lit a votive candle.  "I just love magic," she whispered and
smiled mischievously.  "I haven't seen you in a while, Alex.  That's
either very good or very bad."

I lit a votive candle myself.  Then I said a prayer.  "Dear Lord,
continue to watch over Jannie.  I also wish that Christine wasn't
moving away from Washington.  I know you must be testing me again."

Adele winced as if she'd been burned.  She looked away from the
flickering votive flame and into my eyes.  "Oh, Alex, I'm so sorry. You
don't need anymore tests."

"I'm all right," I told her.  I didn't want to get into it now, not
even with Adele.

"Oh, Alex, Alex."  She shook her head back and forth.  Tern know better
than that.  I know better."

"I'm fine, really."

Adele looked completely exasperated with me.  "Fine, then.  That will
be one hundred for the visit.  You can put it in the collection
basket."

Adele walked back to her family, who were already seated about halfway
down the center aisle.  She turned, and looked at me.  She wasn't
smiling now.

When I got to our pew, Damon asked me who the pretty lady was that I'd
been talking to in the back of the church.

"She's a doctor.  A friend of mine,"I said, which was true enough.

"Is she your doctor?  What kind of doctor is she?  She looks like she's
kind of mad at you," he whispered.  "What did you do wrong?"

"I didn't do anything wrong,"I  whispered back at Damon.  "Don't I get
any privacy?"

"No.  Besides, we're in church.  I'm hearing your confession."

"I don't have any confession for you to hear.  I'm all right.  I'm
fine.  I'm at peace with the world.  I couldn't be happier."

Damon gave me the same look of exasperation that Adele had.  Then he
shook his head and turned away.  He didn't believe me either.  When the
collection basket came, I put in a hundred dollars.

Chapter Forty-Nine

The Mastermind was keeping everything on a tight schedule.  The clock
inside his head was ticking loudly, always ticking.

The best of the bank-robbing crews, the creme de la creme, was
scheduled to meet with him in his suite at a Holiday Inn near Colonial
Village in Washington.  They were on time of course.  He had made it a
formal condition of the meeting.

Brian Macdougall swaggered into the suite ahead of the others.  The
Mastermind smiled at the absurdly cocksure way Macdougall carried
himself.  He knew that Macdougall would lead the way into the room.  He
was followed by his subordinates, B J Stringer and Robert Shaw.  The
three of them look like anything but high-level thieves, he thought.
Two of the three wore royal-blue-and-white T-shirts from the same Long
Island softball league.

"Mr.  O'Malley and Mr.  Crews?"  the Mastermind asked from behind the
screen of lights that prohibited them from seeing him.  "Where are
they, might I ask?"

Macdougall spoke for the group," They have to work today.  You gave us
kind of short notice, partner.  Three of us took off this morning. It'd
look suspicious, if we all called in sick."

The Mastermind continued to observe the three New York men sitting
beyond the lights.  Each looked like your average Joe.  In truth, they
were the most dangerous of the bank-robbing crews he'd used.  They were
exactly what he needed for the next test.

"So this is what, an audition?"  Macdougall asked.  He had on a black
silk shirt, black trousers and loafers.  He had slicked-back black hair
and a goatee.

"An audition?  No, not at all.  The job is yours, if you want it.  I
know how you work.  Know all about you.  I know your track record."

Macdougall stared ahead at the bright lights, almost as if his gaze
could penetrate them.  "This needs to be a face-to-face meeting, "he
said stonily.  "That's the only way we'll do the job."

The Mastermind rose quickly.  He was stunned and angry.  The legs of
his chair made a loud scraping noise against the floor.  "You were told
from the beginning that wasn't possible.  This meeting is over."

A heavy silence filled the hotel room.  Macdougall looked over at
Stringer and Shaw.  He scratched his goatee a few times, then he
laughed out loud.  "I was just testing, partner.  I guess we can live
without seeing your face.  If you have our payment with you?"

"I have the money, gentlemen.  Fifty thousand dollars.  Just for
meeting with me.  I always keep my promises."

And we walk away with the payment if we don't like your plan for the
job?"

Now it was the Mastermind's turn to smile.  "You'll like the plan," he
said  "You'll especially like the part about your share.  It's fifteen
million dollars."

Chapter Fifty

"Did he say fifteen million?"

"That's what the man said.  What the hell are we supposed to rob?"

Vincent O'Malley and Jimmy Crews weren't at work that day.  They were
waiting inside a Toyota Canary and a Honda Acura, respectively.  They
were in contact with each other by headphone.  Their cars were parked
on opposite sides of the Holiday Inn in Washington.  They were watching
for the Mastermind to appear outside, so that maybe they could follow
him, find out who the hell he was.

O'Malley and Crews listened to the meeting through Brian Macdougall,
who was wired for sound.  They heard fifteen million mentioned and they
wondered what the hell the job could be?  The guy who called himself
Mastermind was something else.  He talked, or rather, lectured, and he
made the mind boggling job sound like a walk in the park.  Six to eight
hours of work; thirty million to split.  The most impressive thing was
that he answered all of Brian Macdougall's tough questions.

O'Malley stayed in contact with Crews in the other car.  "You listening
to this shit, Jimmy?  You believe it?"

"He has my rapt attention.  I'd love to see the tricking look on
Macdougall's face right about now.  This asshole has his number.  It's
like he knows everything about Brian.  Hey, I think the meeting's
breaking up."

O'Malley and Crews remained silent for the next few minutes.  Then
O'Malley spoke.  "He's outside the hotel.  I see him, Jimmy.  He's on
foot.  He's walking south on Sixteenth Street.  Doesn't seem concerned
about being followed.  I got him!"

"Maybe he's not so fucking smart, after all," Crews said.

O'Malley laughed.  "Shit.  I was kind of hoping he was that smart."

Crews said, "I'll go parallel down Fourteenth.  What's he look like?
What's he wearing?"

Tall, over six feet.  White guy.  Beard, maybe a fake one.  Long hair.
Pretty nondescript clothes: Dark sports coat and slacks, blue shirt...
He's picking up the pace.  He's starting to jog now.  He's going off
the main street, Jimmy.  He's headed back through a yard.  He's
runningl Son of a bitch is on the run!  Here we go!"

Vincent O'Malley jumped out of his car and followed the Mastermind.  He
ran close to the maple and oak trees that lined most of the apartment
buildings on the street.  He continued to report in to Crews.  "He's
going into the woods off Shepherd Park.  Motherhumper is trying to get
away from us.  Imagine that."

O'Malley followed the Mastermind as best he could, but he couldn't keep
up.  The guy was a runner.  He didn't look like it, but he could move
real well.

Then O'Malley lost him!  "He's gone.  Fuck me in the heinie.  I lost
him, Jimmy.  I don't see him anywhere.  This is not good."

Crews picked him up again.  "I got him.  I'm on foot too.  He's still
running like some pickpocket with my wallet."

"You keep up with him?"

"Hope so.  We'll see.  For fifteen million dollars I'll keep up with
him somehow."

The Mastermind finally came out of the woods and on to a side street
filled with brick townhouses.  Crews was panting as he spoke into the
mike on his headphones.  "Thank God I run every day.  He runs too. He's
out on Morningside Drive ... Awhh shit, he's heading back into the
goddamn woods.  He's picking up the pace again.  The bastard must train
on the Appalachian Trail."

It became an incredible game of cat and mouse.  Even though they were
good at it, O'Malley and Crews lost their prey twice more in the next
twenty minutes.  They were miles from the Holiday Inn, somewhere south
of Walter Reed Army Medical Center.

Then Crews spotted him on a narrow side street called Powhaten Place.
The Mastermind had turned into a back driveway or something.  Crews
followed.  He saw a metal sign, and he almost couldn't believe what it
said.

Crews reported back to O'Malley.  Then he talked to Brian Macdougall
who'd joined the merry chase.

Crews couldn't keep the irony out of his voice.  "I know where the hell
he is, fellas.  Get this he's inside a nuthouse.  He's on the grounds
of a mental institution called Hazelwood.  And now I've lost him
again!"

Chapter Fifty-One

Monday morning, I got a call to meet Kyle Craig and Betsey Cavalierre
at the Hoover Building on Tenth Street and Pennsylvania Avenue.  They
wanted me to be at the director's office at eight o'clock.  An
'emergency7 meeting had been called.

The Hoover Building is sometimes called the "Puzzle Palace," and for
obvious reasons.  Kyle and Betsey were waiting when I arrived in the
FBI director's conference room.  Betsey looked tense for her.  Her
small hands were clenched into fists, the knuckles white.

I pretended to be annoyed that Director Burns wasn't there yet," He's
late," I muttered.  "Let's get out of here.  We've got better things to
do."

Just then, one of two polished oak doors into the room opened.  I knew
both of the men who walked inside.  Neither of them looked very happy.
One was FBI Director Ronald Burns, whom I'd met during the Casanova
killings in Durham and Chapel Hill, North Carolina.  The second man was
Secretary of Justice, Richard Pollett.  I had met him when I'd worked
on a case involving the President.

"We're getting an awful lot of heat on these robbery-murders.  The big
banks, Wall Street," Pollett said to Kyle.  He nodded in my direction.
"Hello, Detective," Then he looked at Betsey.  "I'm sorry, we haven't
met."

'I'm Senior Agent Cavalierre," she said and rose to shake the
secretary's hand," I'm the SAC."

"Ms Cavalierre is the agent in charge of the investigation?"  Pollett
asked Director Burns.

"Yes, she is."  Kyle answered the question.  "This is her case."

Secretary Pollett turned his unwavering gaze on her.  "All right,
you're the SAC.  Where are some results, Ms Cavalierre?  I walked into
this room ready to make heads roll.  Tell me why I shouldn't.  "Richard
Pollett had run a large and successful Wall Street investment house
before he came to Washington.  He knew nothing about law enforcement
but believed he was smart enough to figure out anything once he had
some facts.

"Have you ever been part of a national manhunt?  "Betsey stared right
back into his eyes.

"I don't think that's a relevant question," he answered dryly.  "I've
run some very important investigations, and I've always gotten
results."

"The robberies have been coming fast," I found myself saying to
Pollett.  "Obviously, we were starting from nowhere.  Here's what we
know now.  A single man planned the Citibank, First Union, First
Virginia, and Chase robberies and murders.  We know he's selecting crew
members that are willing to kill.  He's only interested in recruiting
killers.

"Our profile tells us he's a white male between thirty-five and fifty.
He's probably well educated, with a thorough knowledge of banks and
their security systems.  He may have worked for a financial institution
in the past, or even more than one, and might have a grudge against
them.  He robs banks for the money, but the murders are probably for
revenge.  That, we're not sure about yet."

I looked around the room.  Everyone was listening instead of bickering.
"A few days ago we located and questioned a man named Tony Brophy.  He
was recruited for one of the jobs but was turned down.  He wasn't
cold-blooded enough.  He wasn't a killer."

Betsey spoke.  "We have over two hundred agents in the field.  We were
only a couple of minutes behind them at the Chase robbery in DC," she
said.  "We know that he calls himself the Mastermind.  There's been a
lot of progress in a relatively short time."

Pollett turned to the FBI director and nodded curtly.  'I'm not
satisfied, but at least I finally got a few answers.  It's your job to
get this Mastermind, Ron.  Do it.  What's happening makes all our
financial systems appear vulnerable.  The polls say confidence in the
banks is down.  And that's a disaster for this country.  I assume your
Mastermind has figured that out already."

Ten minutes later, Betsey Cavalierre and I rode the elevator down to
the FBI's underground garage together.  Kyle had stayed behind with
Director Burns.

When we got to the basement floor, she finally spoke.  "I owe you one
for upstairs.  You saved me.  Big time.  I was this close to unloading
on that pompous Wall Street asshole."

I looked at her and a smile broke on my face.  "You definitely have a
temper.  I hope you don't have a grudge against Big Business or the
banking system?"

She finally grinned.  "Of course I do.  Who doesn't?"

Chapter Fifty-Two

I spent the next couple of hours at the hospital with Jannie.  She told
me again that she was going to be a doctor and she sounded ready to
take her med boards.  She took delight in using words like pilocytic
astrocytoma (her tumor), prothrombin (a plasma protein used in the
clotting of blood), and contrast material (dye used in the CAT scan
she'd had just that morning).

"I'm back," Jannie finally announced, 'and the new and improved model
is better than ever."

"Maybe you better go into public relations, or the advertising field
when you grow up," I teased her.  "Work for J Walter Thompson or Young
and Rubicam in New York."

She puckered her mouth and looked as if she'd just bitten into a lemon.
"Dr.  Janelle Cross.  Remember where you heard it first."

"Don't worry," I told her, "I won't forget any of this."

Around one o'clock I went over to the Crisis Center at the FBI field
office on Fourth.  After the meeting with Pollett and Bums, I knew we'd
be working late.  A conference room had been commandeered on the third
floor.  More than a hundred agents were working out of there.  Also,
about sixty detectives from DC and the surrounding areas.

We had a few more suspects up on the walls now.  They were all bank
robbers with the skills and experience to pull off big jobs.  I studied
the list and made notes on a few of them.

Mitchell Brand was a suspect in several unsolved robberies in and
around DC.  Stephen Schnurmacher was the person behind at least two
successful bank heists in the Philadelphia area.  Jimmy Doud was a
bartender in Boston who'd never been caught but who had robbed dozens
of banks up in New England.  Victor Kenyon had been concentrating his
efforts in central Florida.  They all did banks, and they hadn't been
caught yet.  They were smart, and good at what they did.  But were they
masterminds?

Everything about the long session on Fourth Avenue was intense, and
intensely frustrating.  I made some calls about the suspects,
particularly Mitchell Brand, since he worked out of DC.  It was nearly
eleven-thirty when I looked at my watch for the first time all night.

Betsey Cavalierre and I hadn't gotten the chance to talk since I'd
arrived that afternoon.  I drifted her way to say goodnight before I
left the building.  She was still going at it.  She was talking to a
couple of agents but gestured for me to wait.

Finally, she walked over.  She still managed to look fresh and alert,
and I wondered how she did it.

"Metro has a couple of leads on Mitchell Brand," I told her.  "He's
violent enough to be involved in something like this."

Suddenly, she yawned," Longest day of my life.  Whew!  How's Jannie
doing?"  she asked.  I was surprised and also pleased by the
question.

"Oh, she's doing good, great actually.  Hopefully, she'll come home
soon.  She wants to be a doctor now."

"Alex," she said, 'let's go have a drink.  This is a shot in the dark,
but I get the feeling that you need to talk to somebody.  Why don't you
talk to me?"

I must admit, the offer completely caught me off guard.  I stammered
out a response.  "I'd like to, but not tonight.  I have to go home. Rain
check?"

"Sure, I understand.  It's okay.  Rain check," she said, but not before
a look of hurt had passed over her face.

I never expected that from Agent Betsey Cavalierre.  She had shown
concern about my family.  And she was vulnerable.

Chapter Fifty-Three

This was the place, the time, the opportunity.  The Renaissance
Mayflower Hotel on Connecticut Avenue near Seventeenth.

It was busy as ever that morning, busy and important-looking.  The
Mayflower had been the site of every presidential inaugural ball since
Calvin Coolidge.  The hotel had been completely renovated in 1992, with
architects and historians working together to restore it to its earlier
grandeur.  It was a popular place for corporate conferences and
board-of-directors meetings.  That was how the Mastermind had come to
choose it.

A blue-and-gold chartered tour bus had been waiting in front of the
Mayflower since a little before nine.  It was scheduled to leave at
nine-thirty and would be making scheduled stops at the Kennedy Center,
the White House, the Lincoln and Vietnam Memorials, the Smithsonian
Institution and other favorite tourist spots around Washington.  The
bus company was called Washington On Wheels.  The corporate group on
board was from the Metro Hartford Insurance Company.

Sixteen women and two children were on the bus when the driver, Joseph
Denyeau, finally shut the door at nine-forty.  "All aboard for various
museums, historic sites, and lunch," he announced into his
microphone.

A corporate assistant named Mary Jordan stood up in front and addressed
the group.  Jordan was in her early thirties, attractive and likable,
supremely efficient.  She was courteous to the important women on the
bus, without fawning over them or sounding obsequious.  Her nickname at
Metro Hartford was' Merry Mary."

"You all know the itinerary for this morning," she said.  Then she


smiled brilliantly.  "But maybe we should scrap the whole plan and go
drinking.  Just kidding," she added quickly.

"Boo," said one wife, 'that sounds like fun, Mary.  Let's go to a real
drinking bar.  Where does Teddy Kennedy go for his morning wake-up
shot?"  Up and down the aisle everyone laughed.

The tour bus proceeded down the driveway of the hotel at a leisurely
pace, then turned on to Connecticut Avenue.  A few minutes later, the
bus turned on to Oliver, which was a residential street.  It was a
shortcut drivers often took from the Mayflower.

A dark blue Chevy van backed out of a driveway about halfway down the
block.  The van's driver obviously didn't see the bus, but the bus
driver saw the Chevy.  He braked smoothly and stopped in the middle of
the street.

The driver of the van wouldn't move even after Joe Denyeau sounded his
horn.  Denyeau figured that the man must be fed up with all the trucks
and buses that used the side street as a shortcut.  What other reason
could there be for the guy to just sit there, staring angrily at him?

Two masked men suddenly appeared from behind a high hedge.  One of them
stepped directly in front of the tour bus; the other thrust an
automatic weapon inside the open window, inches from the driver's
head.

"Open the door or you're dead, Joseph," he shouted at the driver," No
one gets hurt if you obey.  You have three seconds to follow
directions.  One ..."

"It's open, it's open," Denyeau said in a high-pitched, very frightened
voice.  "Take it easy."

Several of the wives stopped in the middle of their conversations and
peered up toward the front of the bus.  Mary Jordan slid down in the
bus seat behind the driver, where she was riding alone.  She could see
the man with the gun, and then he winked at her.

"Do what he says, Joe," Jordan whispered.  "Don't play the hero."

"Don't worry.  It didn't even cross my mind."

The armed, masked man suddenly boarded the bus.  He held a Walther
double automatic pointed at them.  Some of the passengers began to
scream.

The masked man shouted out, "This is a hijacking!  We're only
interested in getting money from MerroHartford.  I promise you, no one
will be hurt.  I have children, you have children.  Let's make sure all
of our children get to see us tomorrow morning."

Chapter Fifty-Four

The tour bus became strangely silent.  Even the small children were
quiet.

Brian Macdougall had the floor and he immensely enjoyed being the
center of attention.  "There are a few rules of order.  One, no more
screams.  Two, nobody cries, not even the kids.  Three, nobody yells
for help.  Okay so far?  Understood?"

The passengers stared open-mouthed at the man with the gun.  Another
man had climbed on to the bus roof and was changing the alphanumeric
indicator, which was the easiest way police aircraft could spot the bus
on the road.

"I said okay so far?"  Brian Macdougall yelled.

The women and children nodded and answered him in muffled voices.

"Next piece of business.  Everyone with a cell phone pass it forward
-right now.  As we all know, the police can track cell phones.  Not
easily, but it can be done.  Anyone still holding a phone when we do
body searches will be killed.  Even if it's a kid.  Simple as that.
Understood?  Okay so far?  We still crystal-clear on everything?"

The cell phones were hurriedly passed to the front.  There were nine of
them.  The gunman threw them outside the bus, into the hedges.  He then
used a small hammer and smashed the bus's two-way radio beyond
repair.

"Now, everybody, put your heads way down below the level of the
windows.  Everybody stay very quiet down here.  That includes the kids.
Put your heads down now and don't look up again until you're told.  Do
it."

The women and the children on the bus obeyed.

"Big Joe,"the gunman turned and addressed the bus driver," you have
only one instruction follow the blue van.  Do not fuck around in any
way or you will die instantly.  You are worth nothing to us alive, or
dead.  Now, Joe, what do you do?"

"Follow the black van."

"Very good, Joe.  Excellent.  Except the van is blue, Joe.  See the
blue van?  Now follow it, and drive carefully.  We don't want any
vehicular violations on our trip."

Chapter Fifty-Five

There were three executive assistants busily answering phones and
collecting mail and faxes for the thirty-six directors working in the
famed Chinese Room at the Mayflower Hotel.  The assistants loved being
out of the office, especially since the home offices were in Hartford,
Connecticut.

Sara Wilson, the youngest assistant, saw the fax from the kidnappers
first.  She quickly read it, then passed it on to the two more-senior
assistants.  Her face was beet red and her hands were trembling
badly.

"Is this some kind of a sick joke?"Liz Becton asked when she saw the
fax.  "This is crazy.  What is this?"

Nancy Hall was the executive assistant to the group CEO, John Dooner.
She barged into the board meeting without knocking and called clear
across the room.  Actually, she needn't have raised her voice.  The
Chinese Room at the Mayflower had an acoustic problem.  The ceiling was
a sweeping dome.  Even a whisper on one side of the large room could be
heard on the other.

"Mr.  Dooner, I have to see you right now," she said.  She was more
agitated and upset than her boss had ever seen her.

The departure of the CEO brought a general lightening of the mood
around the room, but the small talk and smiles were short-lived.  He
was back in less than five minutes.  His face was pale as he hurriedly
walked to the podium.

Time is of the essence," said Dooner in a trembling voice that shocked
the other board members.  "Please listen carefully.  The chartered tour
bus carrying my wife and many of your wives has been hijacked.  The men
responsible claim to be the same sick bastards who've been robbing
banks and taking hostages in Maryland and Virginia during the past few
weeks.  They claim that the robberies and murders were committed as
"object lessons" for the people in this boardroom.  They want us to
know they are deadly serious about their demands being met and met on
time to the second."

The CEO continued, his face dramatically lit by the podium lamp. "Their
demands are simple and clear.  They want thirty million dollars to be
delivered to them in exactly four hours, or all the hostages will be
murdered.  We don't know how the tour bus was taken.  Steve Holding
from our Control Risks Group is on his way over here.  He's deciding
which police agency to involve.  It will probably be the FBI."

Dooner stopped to take a breath.  The color in his face was returning
slowly.  "As you know, we have a kidnapping insurance policy that
covers up to fifty million in ransom.  I suspect that the kidnappers
already know this.  They seem to be thorough and organized.  They're
also clear-headed, which gives them an advantage.  I think they know
that we are the underwriters on the policy ourselves.  Therefore, we
can get the money and we can get it fast.

"Now, ladies and gentlemen, please, we have to talk about our
alternatives.  If there are any alternatives.  The kidnappers have made
one thing very clear there can be no mistakes or people will die."

Chapter Fifty-Six

I was at the FBI field office on Fourth Street when we got the
emergency call.

A Washington On Wheels tour bus with eighteen passengers and the driver
had been hijacked soon after it left the Renaissance Mayflower Hotel.
Minutes later, a thirty-million-dollar ransom had been demanded from
the Metro Hartford Insurance Company.

The instructions from the kidnappers stated that police agencies were
not to be involved, but there was no way we could back off and trust
them.  We set up at the Capitol Hilton, which was close to the
Mayflower, on Sixteenth and K. We had four mobile command units, in
addition to the dozen agents already operating inside the Mayflower. It
was dangerous, but Betsey felt we needed primary surveillance at the
hotel.  The technical penetration involved concealed listening devices
and a limited amount of video surveillance.  The entire Metropolitan
field office of the FBI was put on alert.

High-tech helicopters, Apaches, were in the air searching for the
Washington On Wheels bus.  The Apaches had heat monitors for tracking
purposes, if and when the kidnappers attempted to hide the bus and its
passengers.  The alphanumeric indicator on the bus's roof had been
given out to aerial police, military, city, state, and even civil
aircraft.  None of the groups were told why they were looking for the
bus.

The Capitol Hilton was close enough for us to get to the Mayflower in
about ninety seconds if necessary.  We hoped it was far enough away so
that the crew wouldn't know we were there.  We now had exactly two
hours until the money was to be dropped.  The schedule was incredibly
tight.  For them and for us.

Then the job got harder.

Jill Abramson from the insurance company's internal security committee
and Steve Holding from the security firm itself arrived at the Hilton.
Abramson was a heavyset woman in a yellow pinstriped business suit. She
looked to be in her late forties.  Bolding was tall and in good shape,
probably in his early fifties.  He had on a blue blazer, white shirt,
and jeans.  They had come to the Hilton to tell us how to do our
jobs.

Betsey opened her mouth to speak, but Bolding abruptly waved her off.
He had something to say first.  It was clear that he wanted to take
control of the meeting.

"This is how it's going to be.  I let you in on this, but I can also
shut you right out again.  I'm a former SAC with the Bureau so I know
all the right moves and all the wrong ones.  We don't have time for
niceties here.  Agent Cavalierre, are there any leads on the identity
of the UN SUBs  It's eleven forty-six.  Our zero hour is one
forty-five.  Precisely."

Betsey took a short breath before she answered Bolding's question.  She
was keeping her cool better than I would have done with the private
security expert.

"Suspects, yes, but nothing we can use to help the hostages.  A
neighbor saw the hijacking of the bus.  Two males were involved.  They
wore ski-style masks.  The bus was spotted on De Sales Street, but we
don't know if that was before or after the hostages were taken.  It's
now eleven forty-seven, Mr.  Bolding."

Ms Abramson said something that surprised all of us.  "We have the
money coming to the Mayflower right now.  The ransom will be paid."

"On schedule," said Bolding.  "We're waiting for further instructions
from the hijackers.  They have been incommunicado since their first
contact.  Our people will make the drop, and we'll make it alone."

Betsey Cavalierre finally went off on Bolding.  "I listened to you, now
you listen to me, mister.  You were an SAC.  I am an SAC.  I would have
been your superior if you had stayed at the Bureau, and I'm your
superior now.  My people will make the money drop.  I'll be there you
won't.  That's how it will be done!"

Both Abramson and Bolding started to argue with her, but Betsey cut
them off instantly.

"That's enough bullshit out of the both of you.  Everything will be
handled with the full knowledge of how dangerously unpredictable the
hijackers are.  If you don't like my terms, then you're out.  I'll 

arrest you right here, Bolding.  That goes for you too, Ms Abramson. We
have lots of work to do in exactly one hour and fifty-seven minutes."

Chapter Fifty-Seven

He walked among the people in the crowded lobby and the vast corridors
to nowhere inside the Capitol Hilton hotel.  None of them had any idea
what was happening, which was just as he liked it.  Only he had the
answers, and the questions as well.

He had already spotted the FBI agents-and Metro Detective Cross as they
arrived.  They hadn't seen him of course, but even if they did, there
was no chance that he would be stopped and apprehended.  It just
couldn't happen.

This was such an incredible mismatch his mind and experience against
theirs.  Sometimes, it didn't even seem like a challenge to him.  That
was the rub, the only problem he could see: If he got too bored and
careless, then maybe they had a chance to catch him.

He noticed a small entourage, nervous and worried-looking, cross
through the lobby and head toward the hotel's cramped nest of meeting
rooms.  That was where the FBI had set up camp.  Metro-Hartford had
violated his warning, but he'd known they would.  It really wasn't
important.  Not this time.  He had wanted the FBI and Cross brought in
on this.

Finally, he decided to leave the Hilton.  He walked to the Renaissance
Mayflower the scene of the horrific crime.  That was where the real
action would be.

And that's where the Mastermind wanted to be as well.  He wanted to
watch, to be right there.

Chapter Fifty-Eight

The kidnappers finally called Metro Hartford board of directors at ten
past one.  There were only thirty-five minutes left to the deadline.

We knew what would happen if we missed the deadline.  Or if the
kidnappers did, even if they did it on purpose.

Betsey and I hurried to the Mayflower Hotel.  We caught two small
breaks but, given the direction of things so far, they felt much
larger.  The first was that the service exit of the kitchen led to a
small loading dock and alley.  During the Clinton inaugural, the Secret
Service had parked there.  We used the alley to get inside without
being seen by anyone.  The second break was that the FBI agents in the
hotel had learned that the room where the Metro Hartford board was
meeting, the Chinese Room, had a unique feature that would be useful to
us.  There was a narrow, metal staircase directly behind it.  The
stairs led to a catwalk above the rotunda.  There were small viewing
holes there where we could watch and listen, but not be seen.

Betsey and I hurried up to the catwalk and crouched high over the
meeting room.  We needn't have bothered.

The kidnappers were still on the line.

"We assume that the FBI and possibly the Washington police are involved
at this point, "the voice of one of the kidnappers said over the
speakerphone in the Chinese Room.  "We have no objection.  We fully
expected it.  In fact, we welcome the Bureau.  We've written you into
the plan."

Betsey and I shared looks of exasperation.  The Mastermind was making
us look bad.  Why?  We hurried downstairs and joined the others in the
Chinese Room.  My head was spinning with questions.  The Mastermind was
good at keeping us off balance.  Too good.

"First, I'm going to repeat our demands for the money," the distorted
voice on the speakerphone said.  "This is important.  Please follow the
instructions.  As you know, five million of the thirty should be in
uncut diamonds.  The diamonds must be packed in one duffel bag.  There
should be no more than eight other duffels.  The cash must be in
twenties and fifties.  No hundred-dollar bills.  No dye packs.  No
tracking devices of any kind.  Now, who am I speaking to?"

Betsey moved close to the speakerphone.  So did I. "This is Special
Agent Elizabeth Cavalierre.  I'm Special Agent in Charge with the

FBI."

"I'm Alex Cross, Washington police, and liaison with the Bureau."

"Good for you.  I'm familiar with both your names, your reputations. Is
our money ready as requested?"

"Yes it is.  The money and the diamonds are here at the Mayflower,"
Betsey answered.

"Excellent!  We'll be in touch."

We heard a click as he hung up the phone.

The CEO of Metro Hartford exploded in anger.  "They knew you were here!
Oh Christ, what have we done!  They'll kill the hostages!"

I put a firm hand on his shoulder.  "Take it easy.  Please.  Is the
payoff arranged exactly as they've requested?"  I asked.

He nodded.  "Exactly.  The diamonds will be here any minute.  The money
has already arrived.  We're doing our part, everything that we can.
What are you people doing?"

I continued to speak in a soft voice.  "And no one at Metro Hartford
has heard a word about where the money and diamonds are to be dropped?
This is an important question."

The insurance executive was frightened, and with good reason.  "You
heard the man on the phone.  He said they'd be in touch.  No, we
haven't heard anything about where to drop the money and diamonds."

"That's good news, Mr.  Dooner.  They're acting in a professional way.
So are we.  I don't believe they've harmed anyone yet.  We'll wait for
the next call.  The exchange is the hardest part for them."

"My wife is on that bus, "the chief executive said.  "So is my
daughter."

"I know,"I told him," I know."

And I also knew that the Mastermind seemed to like hurting families.

Chapter Fifty-Nine

It wasn't as if we weren't doing everything we could, but we were at
their mercy so far, and our time was running out.  The clock was
ticking.  Very fast.

No aircraft had spotted the tour bus and that meant that the bus had
gotten off the road quickly, or possibly that they'd changed the
alphanumeric indicator on the roof.  The heat-seeking army helicopters
hadn't found anything either.  At twenty past one, another call came to
the Chinese Room at the Mayflower.  It was the same disturbing,
machine-distorted voice.

"It's time to move.  There's a delivery at the front desk for Mr.
Dooner.  Inside you'll find Handie-Talkies.  Bring all of them."

"Where are we going?"  Betsey asked.

"We're going to be rich.  You're going to load the money and diamonds
into a van and head north on Connecticut Avenue.  If you deviate from
the route I give you, a hostage will be shot."

The line went dead again.

We had a van parked in the alley outside the hotel kitchen.  The
kidnappers knew we did.  How, though?  What did that tell us?  Betsey
Cavalierre and I and two other agents rushed outside to the van, then
headed on to Connecticut Avenue.

We were still on Connecticut when my Handie-Talkie went off.  FBI
agents call walkie-talkies "Handie-Talkies."  So had the kidnappers on
the phone.  What did that clue mean?  Was it a clue?  Was the caller
simply communicating that he knew everything about us?

"Detective Cross?"

"I'm right here.  We're on Connecticut Avenue.  Now what?"

"I knew you would be.  Listen closely.  If we see any surveillance


planes or helicopters flying above your prescribed route a hostage will
be shot.  Understand?"

"I understand perfectly," I said.  I looked over at Betsey.  She had to
cut off air surveillance immediately.  The kidnappers seemed to know
everything we were doing.

"Proceed as fast as possible to the Baltimore-Washington Airport Rail
Station.  You and the FBI agents are to be on board the five-ten p.m.
Northeast Corridor train from Baltimore to Boston.  Bring the money
duffels with you.  Bring the diamonds.  The five-ten to Boston!  We are
aware that all FBI agents in the Northeast are available to you.  Get
ready to use them.  It doesn't matter to us.  We dare you to stop the
payoff.  It can't be done!"

Ts this the Mastermind I'm speaking to?"  '

The line went dead again.  

Chapter Sixty

FBI agents and local police were dispatched to all the train stations
along the route of the Northeast Corridor train, but blanketing the
entire route would be next to impossible.  The kidnappers knew that.
They had everything working for them now.

Agents Cavalierre, Walsh, Doud and myself were on board the train out
of Baltimore.  We stationed ourselves at the front of the second car.

The rumbling train was a noisy place to be; we couldn't think straight,
or even talk among ourselves very well.  We waited for the next contact
from the kidnappers.  Every passing minute seemed longer than it really
was.

"Sometime soon they're going to tell us to toss the duffel bags off the
moving train," I said.  "That how you figure it?  Any other ideas?"

Betsey nodded.  "I don't think they'll chance meeting the train in one
of the stations.  Why should they?  They know we can't cover all of the
territory between here and Boston.  The ban they put on planes flying
anywhere near the train was the clincher."

"They seem to have solved the tricky problem of the drop, the exchange.
He is a smart son of a bitch, "Agent Walsh said.

Betsey said," He, or maybe it's a she."

I reminded her, "Tony Brophy said he met with a male, if we can believe
him."

"And if the person he saw was really the Mastermind," she countered.

Agent Doud said, "The name bothers me.  Makes him sound like a geek.  A
loser.  The Mastermind."

"Brophy said as much.  He said the man he spoke to was an asshole.  But
he still wanted the job," said Betsey.

"Yeah, well the pay is good," Doud said.

Betsey shrugged," Maybe he is a geek, maybe some kind of computer
genius.  I wouldn't be all that surprised.  Geeks are running the world
now, right?  Getting even for what happened to them in high school.  I
sure am."

"I was reasonably cool in high school," I said and winked.

The Handie-Talkie crackled again.

"Hi there, law-enforcement stars.  The real fun's about to start.
Remember, if we see any choppers or planes near the train, a hostage
will be shot," the familiar male voice instructed.  Was it the
Mastermind?

"How do we know the hostages are still alive?"  Betsey asked.  "Why
should we trust you to tell the truth?  You've murdered innocent people
before."

"You don't.  You shouldn't.  We have.  The bus hostages are alive,
though.  All right open the train door now!  Get ready for my next
signal.  Get the duffel bags up to the door!  Now, now, now!  Move it!
Don't make us kill somebody."

Chapter Sixty-One

The four of us rushed to get the heavy bags of money to the nearest
train door.  I was already starting to sweat.  My face and scalp felt
flushed.

"Get ready!  Get ready!"  The voice on the Handie-Talkie yelled out
frantic commands.  "This is it."

Betsey was already on another two-way alerting her people.  The
countryside was flashing by in bright greens and muddy browns.  We were
somewhere near Aberdeen, Maryland, having passed through the last
station about seven minutes earlier.

"Get ready!  Are you ready?  Don't disappoint me!"  the voice squawked
loudly.

So far, the only trick we had come up with was to try to spread out the
area where the money bags would fall.  We had even considered keeping
one bag on board, which might force them to search for a while.  But we
agreed that was too dangerous for the hostages.

The Handie-Talkie went dead again.

"Fuck!" Doud exclaimed.

"Do we throw the money bags out?  "Walsh yelled over the rumble of the
train and the rushing wind.

"No!  Wait!"  I yelled at him and Doud, who was leaning precariously
over the train's edge.  "Wait for their instructions!  He would have
told us to throw the money off.  Don't throw the bags!"

"Son of a bitchi'Betsey shouted as she swung her arm around in a fast,
hard arc," They're messing with us.  They're laughing at us right
now."

"Yes, they probably are,"I said," Let's keep our cool.  We have to keep
it together."

The FBI was going crazy `>/:,' trying to track the channel the kidnappers were
using for the two-way radios.  It wasn't working.  The two-ways were
state-of-the-art, the kind the military used.  The scrambler chips in
them were encoded to change the frequency each time they were used.  It
was even possible that the kidnappers had several two-ways and were
discarding them after each call.

Betsey was still incensed.  Her brown eyes flashed.  "He's thought of
everything, including not giving us time to plan.  Who is this
bastard?"

The Handie-Talkie crackled again.

"Open the door!  Get ready to heave the bags out," the radio voice
suddenly commanded again.

I grabbed two bags full of twenty- and fifty-dollar bills.  My heart
was in my throat as I rushed to the open door a second time.  The wind
outside roared.

The train was hurtling through deep woods now, elms and pines and thick
brush.  I saw no houses or anyone lurking in the woods.  It seemed like
a good spot for the drop-off.

The Handie-Talkie went dead again!

Assholes!  "Agent Doud yelled at the top of his voice.  The rest of us
groaned and dropped to the floor.

The voice repeated the drill eleven times in the next hour and a
quarter.  Three times we were made to move all the money to different
cars on the train.

We were sent all the way to the last car then we were immediately
ordered back to the front again.

"You guys are good.  Very obedient, "said the radio voice.

Then the two-way was silent again.

Chapter Sixty-Two

"I can't stand this!  "Betsey yelled.  "Goddamn him to hell I want to
kill that bastard," The money bags were oversized and heavy; we were
exhausted from lugging them through the train.  We were covered with
perspiration and dirt and soot.  Jumpy and on edge.  The constant
rattle of the train was noisier than ever.

The Amtrak train was rushing through deep woods again.  Its horn blared
loudly.  Agent Walsh was keeping track of the stations we'd passed.

Then the Handie-Talkie came to life again.  "Get those bags of money
and diamonds ready.  Open the door now!  And when you toss them throw
them out close together.  If you don't, a hostage will be shot!  We're
watching every move you make.  You're very pretty, Agent Cavalierre."

"Yeah, and you're a geek," Betsey muttered to herself.  Her pale blue
T-shirt was stained a shade darker with sweat.  Her black hair stuck
closely to her scalp.  If she'd had an ounce of fat on her before,
she'd lost it during the jarring train ride.

"False alarm," the voice on the radio said with obvious glee.  "As you
were.  That's all for the moment."

The two-way went dead again.

"Shit!"

Everyone collapsed on to the duffel bags and lay there breathing
heavily.  I was trying to keep my brain working in straight lines, but
it was getting harder after each false alarm.  I really wasn't sure if
I could make another run to the other end of the train.

"Maybe we should get off the train with the money bags."  Walsh spoke
from his perch on the bags.  "Screw up their timing at least.  Do
something they don't expect."

"It's an idea, but too dangerous for the hostages, "Betsey told him.

Walsh and Doud cursed loudly when the two-way came on again.  We had
almost reached our limit.  What was our limit?

"No rest for the wicked," the voice said.  We could hear the pop of a
soft-drink or beer can being opened.  Then a sigh of refreshment.  "Or
maybe the line should be, rest for the wicked?"

The radio voice screamed at us.  "Throw out the bags now!  Do it! We're
watching the train.  We see you!  Throw the bags or we kill all of
them!"

We had no choice; no options had been left open to us.  It was all we
could do to try to throw the bags off close to one another.  We were
too tired to move as fast as we might have.  I felt as if I were moving
in a dream.  My clothes were soaking wet; my arms and legs sore.

"Throw the bags faster!"  the voice commanded.  "Let's see those
muscles, Agent Cavalierre."

Could he see us?  Probably.  It sounded like it.  No doubt he was in
the woods with his two-way.  How many of them were there?

When the nine bags were gone, the train rushed around a sharp bend in
the tracks.  We couldn't see what was happening fifty yards behind us.
We fell to the floor, cursing and moaning.

Betsey gasped.  "Goddamn them.  They did it.  They got away with it.
Oh, goddamn them to hell."

The Handie-Talkie came on again.  He wasn't finished with us.  "Thanks
for the help.  You guys are the best.  You can always get a job bagging
groceries at the local A and P. Might not be a bad career option after
this."

Are you the Mastermind?"  I asked.

The line went dead.

The radio voice was gone and so were the money and diamonds, and they
still had the nineteen hostages.

Chapter Sixty-Three

Seven miles ahead, agents Cavalierre, Doud, Walsh, and I stumbled off
the train at the next available station.

Two black Suburbans were waiting for us.  Standing around the vehicles
were several FBI agents with rifles.  A crowd of people had gathered at
the station.  They were pointing at the guns and agents as if they'd
spotted the Washington Redskins fresh from a hunting trip.

We were given up-to-the-minute information.  "It appears they're
already out of the woods," an agent told us.  "Kyle Craig is on his way
here now.  We're setting up roadblocks, but they'll be hit and miss.
There is some good news, though.  We might have caught a break on the
tour bus."

Moments later, we were being patched in to a woman from Tinden, a small
town in Virginia.  Supposedly, the woman had information on the
whereabouts of the bus.  She said she would only talk to 'the police,"
and that she didn't much care for the FBI and their methods.

Only after I identified myself was the elderly woman willing to talk to
me.  She seemed nervous and hyperactive.

Her name was Isabelle Morris and she had sighted a tour bus in the
farmlands out in Warren county.  She'd become suspicious because she
owned the local bus company and the bus wasn't one of hers.

"The bus was blue with gold stripes?"  Betsey asked without identifying
herself as FBI.

"Blue and gold.  Not one of mine.  So I don't know what the tour
vehicle would be doing here," Mrs.  Morris said," No reason for a bus
like that to be out in these parts.  This is redneck territory.  Tinden
isn't on any tours that I know of."

"Did you get the license number, or at least a part of it?"  I asked
her.

She seemed annoyed by the question.  "I had no earthly reason to check
the license number.  Why would I do that?"

"Mrs.  Morris, then why Aid you report the bus to the local police?"

"I told you, if you were listening before.  There's no reason for a
tour bus out here.  Besides, my boyfriend is on the local citizens'
patrol hereabouts.  I'm a widow, ," see.  He's the one actually called
the police.  Why are you so interested, may I ask?"

"Mrs.  Morris, when you saw the tour bus, were there any passengers on
board?"

Betsey and I glanced at each other while we waited for her to answer.

"No, just the driver.  He was a large fellow.  I didn't see anyone
else.  What about the police?  And the infernal FBI?  Why are you all
so interested?"

"I'll get to that in a minute.  Did you notice any identification on
the bus?  A destination sign?  A logo?  Anything you might have seen
would be a help to us.  People's lives are in danger."

"Oh, my," she said, then.  "Yes, there was a sticker on the side: Visit
Williamsburg.  I remember seeing it.  You know what else?  I think the
bus might have said "Washington On Wheels" on the side panel.  Yes, I'm
almost sure it did.  "Washington On Wheels."  Is that any help to
you?"

Chapter Sixty-Four

Betsey was already on another line talking to Kyle Craig.  They were
making a plan to get us to Tinden, Virginia, in a hurry.  Mrs.  Morris
continued to talk my ear off, literally.  Bits and pieces were coming
back to her.  She told me that she had seen the tour bus turn on to a
small, country road not far from where she lived.

"There are only three farms on the road and I know 'em all very well.
Two of the farms border a deserted army base built in the eighties.
I've got to check this funny business out for myself," she said.

I interrupted her right there.  "No, no.  You sit tight, Mrs.  Morris.
Don't move a muscle.  We're on our way to you."

"I know the area.  I can help you," she protested.

"We're on our way.  Please stay put."

One of the FBI helicopters searching the nearby woods was brought over
to the railroad station.  Just as it was arriving so did Kyle.  I'd
never been so glad to see him.

Betsey told Kyle exactly what she hoped to do in Virginia.  "We take
the chopper in as close as we can without being spotted.  Four or five
miles from the town of Tinden.  I don't want too large a ground force
involved.  A dozen good people, maybe less."

Kyle agreed to the plan, because it was a good one, and we were off in
the FBI chopper.  He knew the agents at Quantico he wanted involved and
he dispatched them to Tinden.

Once we were on board the helicopter we reviewed everything we had
learned during the bank robberies.  We also began to receive
information on the area where Mrs.  Morris had seen the bus.  The army
base she mentioned had been a nuke site in the eighties.  "ICBMs were
kept underground at several nuke bases outside Washington," Kyle said.
"If the tour bus is on the site, a concrete silo could shield it from
heat-seeking search helicopters."

Our chopper began to settle down on to an open area near a regional
high school.  I glanced at my watch.  It was way past six o'clock. Were
the hostages still alive?  What sadistic game was the Mastermind
playing?

Bright green athletic fields stretched out behind an idyllic-looking
two-story red brick school.  The entire area was deserted except for
two sedans and a black van waiting for us.  We were four or five miles
from the state road where Mrs.  Morris had seen the' Washington On
Wheels' bus.

Isabelle Morris was sitting in the first sedan.  She looked to be in
her late seventies, a stout woman with an inappropriately cheery,
false-teeth smile.  Somebody's nice grandmother.

"Which farm should we go to first?"  I asked her.  "Where might
somebody be hiding?"

The old woman's bluish-gray eyes narrowed to slits as she thought.
"Donald Browne's farm," she finally said.  "Nobody lives there these
days.  Browne died last spring, poor man.  Someone could hide out there
easy."

Chapter Sixty-Five

"Keep going.  Drive by,"I told our driver as we reached the Browne farm
on State Road #24.  He did as I asked.  We curled around a bend in the
road about a hundred yards farther on.  Then the car eased to a stop.

"I saw somebody on the grounds.  He was leaning against a tree.  Up
near the house.  He was watching the road, Kyle.  Watching us go by.
They're still here."

Up ahead, I could see the remains of the old missile site that had once
been in operation out here.  I figured we would find the tour bus
hidden in a missile silo, safe from the Apache search helicopters.  I
wasn't so optimistic about the nineteen hostages from Metro Hartford
The Mastermind hated insurance companies, didn't he?  Was this about
revenge?

I was flashing lurid images of the hostages who'd been killed during
the bank robberies; I was afraid of finding a massacre scene at the
farm.  We had been warned.  No errors, no mistakes.  The rules had been
enforced during the bank jobs.  Had anything changed?

Kyle said, "Let's go in through the woods.  We don't have time to be
choosy."

He made contact with the other units.  Then he, Betsey, and I ran due
north through the dense woods.  We couldn't see the farmhouse yet, but
we couldn't be seen, either.

The woods came up close to the main house, which was fortunate for us.
The brush was mostly overgrown, almost all the way to the driveway. The
lights were off inside the house.  There was no movement that I could
make out.  No sound.

I could still see the sentry for the kidnappers.  He wasn't too far
away and he had his back to us.  Where were the others?  Where were
the

FBI agents were inside and spreading out all over the house.  Some of
the hostages began to cry when they realized they weren't going to die,
that they'd finally been rescued.

"They said we'd be killed if we tried to leave the house before
tomorrow morning.  They told us about the Buccieri and Casselman
families," a tall, dark-haired woman said between sobs.  Her name was
Mary Jordan and she'd been in charge of the tour group.

We did a careful search of the house no one was there.  There wasn't
any obvious evidence, but the technicians would be here soon.  The tour
bus had already been found in a shed on the former army base.

After half an hour or so, Mrs.  Morris came waddling through the front
door.  A couple of agents were futilely trying to stop her.  The local
woman's appearance was an almost comical punctuation to the stress of
the last several hours," Why did you hit old Bud O'Mara.  He's just a
nice local fella, works at the truck-stop.  Bud said he was paid to
stand around and wait.  Got all of a hundred bucks for the dent in his
skull.  He's harmless, Bud is."

An odd and exhilarating thing happened as several rescue vehicles
finally arrived.  The hostages started to clap and to cheer.  We'd come
for them; we hadn't let them die.

But I knew otherwise: For some reason, the Mastermind hadn't wanted
them to die.

Book Four

Hit And Run

Chapter Sixty-Seven

Of course, the case continued to be a full-blown-knock-down-drag-out
media event.  The press had learned about the existence of a
"Mastermind," and it made for sensational headlines.  A picture of the
Buccieri boy, one of the first victims, was the featured art in story
after story.  I had begun seeing the little boy's face in my dreams.

I was working twelve-and sixteen-hour days.  The Washington bank robber
named Mitchell Brand was still high on the list of FBI suspects.  He
had been up on the wall of suspects for over a week.  We hadn't been
able to locate Brand, but he fit the profile.  Meanwhile, crime-scene
investigators covered the money-pickup site, combing it for evidence.
FBI technicians went over every square inch of the Browne farmhouse.
Traces of theatrical make-up were found in the sink of the farmhouse. I
talked to several hostages and they supported the idea that the
kidnappers might have worn make-up, wigs, and possibly lifts in their
shoes.

Sampson and I worked in Washington the first two days.  Metro-Hartford
had offered a million-dollar reward for information leading to the
capture of the men involved in the crime.  The reward was aimed at the
general public, but also at anyone involved in the robbery whose stake
might be less than the reward being offered.

The search for the bank robber Mitchell Brand was also centered in
Washington.  Brand was a thirty-year-old black man who was suspected in
half a dozen robberies, but who had never been officially charged, and
suddenly had gone underground.  Once upon a time he had been an army
sergeant in Desert Storm.  Brand was known to be violent.  According to
his army records, he had an IQ over one-fifty.

A mountain of evidence was being collected but the notoriety of the
case was also working against us.  The phone calls and faxes offering
tips never stopped at the FBI field office.  Suddenly, there were
hundreds of leads to follow up.  I wondered if the Mastermind was still
working against us.

The second night after the Metro Hartford kidnapping, Sampson showed up
at the house around eleven.  I had just gotten there myself.  I grabbed
a couple of cold beers and we talked out on the sun porch more or less
like civilized adults.

"I was hoping to see the little prince tonight," Sampson said as we sat
down.

"He's coming here to live with us."  I told John the latest news.  Some
of it anyway.

He broke into a broad smile, his teeth as large and white as piano
keys," That's great news, sugar.  I assume Ms Christine is coming as
part of the package."

I shook my head.  "No, she isn't, John.  She's never gotten over what
happened with Geoffrey Shafer.  She's still afraid for her life, for
all of our lives.  She doesn't want to see me anymore.  It's over
between us."

Sampson just stared at me.  "You two were so good together.  I don't
buy it, sugar."

"I didn't either.  Not for months.  I offered to leave police work and
I guess I would have.  Christine told me it wouldn't matter."

I stared into my friend's eyes," I've lost her, John.  I'm trying to
move on.  It breaks my heart."

Chapter Sixty-Eight

My beeper went off late the following night at the house.  It was
Sampson.  "All hell is breaking loose," he said.  "Seriously, Alex."

"Where are you?"  I asked.

"I'm with Rakeem Powell right now.  We're over at the East Capitol
Dwellings.  One of his snitches gave us something good.  We might have
located Mitchell Brand."

"What's the problem then?"  I asked.

"Rakeem called his lieutenant.  The lou called the Jefe.  Chief Pittman
has half of DC on the way here now."

I think I actually saw red at that moment," It's still my goddamn case.
Pittman didn't contact me."

"That's why I'm calling you, sugar.  Better burn on over here."

I met Sampson at the East Capitol Dwellings housing project.  According
to the snitch, Brand was holed up there.  East Capitol Dwellings are
what I've heard called a'subsidized human warehouse."  Actually, the
project looks like a failed prison.  Cold, white cinder-block fences
surround bunkerlike buildings.  It's thoroughly depressing and not
atypical of housing in much of Southeast.  The poor people who live
here do the best they can under the circumstances.

"This has gotten out of control, Alex," Sampson complained once we were
together in one of the dirt-patch yards separating the project
buildings.  "Way too much firepower here.  Too many cooks in the
kitchen.  The chief of detectives strikes again."

I looked around, shook my head and cursed under my breath.  It was a
goddamn zoo.  I saw SWAT personnel and several homicide detectives.
Plus the usual neighborhood loo ky-loos.  Mitchell Brand.  Jesus. 
Could he possibly be the Mastermind?

I quickly put on a Kevlar vest.  I checked my Clock.  Then I went and
talked to the chief of detectives.  I reminded Pittman that this was my
case, and he couldn't argue with that.  I could tell he was surprised
that I was at the scene, though.

"I'll take it from here," I said.

"We've got Brand all set up.  Just don't fuck it up," Pittman finally
snarled, then walked away from me.

Chapter Sixty-Nine

Senior Agent James Walsh arrived on the scene after I did.  No Betsey
Cavalierre, though.  I went up to Walsh.  He and I had gotten friendly
over the past couple of weeks, but he seemed distant tonight.  He
didn't like what was going on here either.  He'd been called late
too.

"Where's Senior Agent Cavalierre?"  I asked.

"She had a couple days off.  I think she's visiting a friend in
Maryland.  You know this Mitchell Brand?"  he asked.

"I know enough about him.  He'll probably be heavily armed if he's up
there.  He apparently has a new girlfriend named Theresa Lopez.  She
lives in the project.  Lopez has three kids.  I know her by sight."

"That's really great," Walsh said and shook his head, rolled his eyes.
"Three kids, their mommy, and an armed bank-robbing suspect."

"You got it.  Welcome to DC, Agent Walsh.  Anyway, Brand could have
been part of the team that struck Metro Hartford  He could be the
Mastermind.  We have to go get him."

I met with the raid team at an OP, an observation point, in a nearby
building.  The OP was a studio apartment used by Metro narcotics
detectives assigned to the East Capitol Dwellings project.  I had been
in the apartment a few times before.  This was my neighborhood.

A team of eight of us would go into the sixth-floor apartment to take
down Mitchell Brand.  Eight was more than enough; there's only safety
in numbers up to a point.

As the team checked weapons and put on Kevlars, I stared out on to the
streets.  Sodium-vapor streetlights created a yellow fuzziness down
below.  What a bad scene.  Even with this much police presence in the
neighborhood, the drug game continued.  Nothing could stop it.  I
watched a brazen team of lookouts and steerers selling crack on the far
corner, beyond the projects.  An addict approached, quick-stepping, his
head down.  A local fool io a familiar sight to me.  I turned away from
the drug deal as if it weren't happening.

I began to talk to the team," Mitchell Brand is wanted for questioning
in the robbery of a First Union in Falls Church.  He could definitely
be our link to whoever is behind the robberies.  This is the best
suspect we've come up with so far.  He could be the Mastermind.

"As best we can tell, Brand is up in the girlfriend's apartment.  She's
a new honey for him.  Detective Sampson will pass around a standard
layout for a one-bedroom in the building.  You should know that inside
the one-bedroom we may find Brand, his girlfriend, and her three
children aged two to six."

I turned to Agent Walsh.  Two of his agents were part of the go team.
He had nothing to add, but he told his men, "The Washington police will
act as the primary at the apartment.  We will be backup in the hallway
and going into the girlfriend's apartment.  That's about it," he
said.

"Okay, let's move out," I said to everybody.  "Everybody use extreme
care.  Everything we know about Brand says he's dangerous and will be
heavily armed."

"He was Special Forces, army," John Sampson added.  "How's that for
whipped cream on shit?"

Chapter Seventy

Armed and dangerous it is a common enough catch-phrase, but with real
meaning to police officers.

We entered Building Three single-file through the dingy, under-lit
basement, then we hurriedly marched up several flights of stairs to the
sixth floor.  The stairway was dirty and stained the color of bad
teeth.  There was evidence there might have been a serious fire in
there at one time.  Soot was caked heavily on the walls, the floor, and
even the metal banister.  Could the Mastermind be hiding up here?  Was
he a black man?  That seemed unthinkable to the FBI.  Why?

Suddenly, we surprised a pair of pathetic, bone-thin crack heads
lighting up on the fourth-floor stairwell.  We had our guns out and
they stared at us bug-eyed, afraid to be there, afraid to move.

"We didn't do nothin' to nobody," one of the men finally said in a
scratchy gargle.  He looked well past forty, but was probably only in
his twenties.

"As you were,"I said in a low voice.  I sternly pointed a finger at
them.  "Not even a whisper."

The paranoid junkies must have thought that we were coming for them.
The two crack heads couldn't believe it when we hurried right past
them. I heard Sampson say," Get the fuck out of here.  It's your last
lucky day."

I could hear infants crying and small children shouting, the babble of
several TV sets, and jazz and hip-hop and salsa music leaking through
the thin walls.  My stomach was knotted up.  Moving in on Brand in a
crowded building was a very bad deal, but everybody wanted results now.
Brand was an excellent suspect.

Sampson lightly touched my shoulder.  "I'll go in with Rakeem," he said
"You follow, sugar.  Don't argue with me."

I frowned but nodded.  Sampson and Rakeem Powell were the best marksmen
we had.  They were careful and smart and experienced, but this was a
tough, scary bust.  Armed and dangerous.  Anything could happen now.

I turned to a detective who held a heavy metal ram with two hands.  It
looked like a small, blunt missile.  Take the door right the hell down,
Officer.  I'm not asking you to knock first."

I looked back at the lineup of tense and anxious men behind me.  I held
up one fist.  "We're going on four," I said.

I gestured with my fingers one two three!

The battering ram hit the door with all the shattering force of a
professional NFL blocking fullback.  The door locks blew right off.  We
were inside.  Sampson and Powell were a step ahead of me.  No shots had
been fired yet.

"Mom-mee!"  One of the small children screeched an alarm.  I had an
instant of fear about the families that had been hurt already because
of the Mastermind.  We didn't need any blood to flow here.

Armed and dangerous.

Two kids were watching South Park on TV.  Where was Mitchell Brand? And
where was the kids' mother, Theresa Lopez?  Maybe they weren't even
home.  Sometimes kids got left alone in apartments for days.

The bedroom door in front of us was closed.  Music was playing
somewhere in the apartment.  If Mitchell Brand was here tonight, he
wasn't too security conscious.  That didn't track very well for me.  I
didn't like anything about this so far.

I yanked open the bedroom door and peered inside.  My heart was
thundering.  I was in a crouched shooting stance.  A third small child
was playing with a teddy bear on the floor," Blue Bear," she told me.

"Blue bear," I whispered.

I stepped back fast into the hallway.  I saw Sampson kick another door
open.  The apartment layout we'd been given was wrong!  This was a
two-bedroom apartment.

Suddenly, Mitchell Brand came out into the hallway.  He was dragging
along Theresa Lopez.  He had a .45 caliber handgun pressed up against
her forehead.  She was a pretty, light-brown-skinned woman, shaking
badly.  Both Brand and Lopez were naked except for gold chains around
his thick neck, wrists, and left ankle.

"Put down the gun, Brand,"I shouted above the din in the apartment.
"You're not going anywhere.  You can't get out of here.  You're smart
enough to know that.  Put down the gun."

"Just get out of my way!  "he shouted.  'I'm smart enough to put a hole
in your face first."

I stood my ground in front of Brand.  Sampson and Rakeem Powell came up
on either side.  "The First Union Bank job in Falls Church.  If you're
not involved, you've got no problem," I said, lowering my voice some.
"Put down the gun."

Brand yelled again.  "I didn't rob the First Union Bank!  I was in New
York City that whole week!  I was at a weedin', Theresa's sister.
Somebody set me up.  Somebody did this to me!"

Theresa Lopez was starting to sob uncontrollably.  Her children were
crying and calling out for their mother.  Detectives and FBI agents
held them back, kept them safe.

"He was at my sister's wedding!  "Theresa Lopez screamed at me.  Her
eyes were pleading.  "He was at a wedding!"

"Mommee!  Mommee!"the kids cried.

"Put the gun down, Brand.  Get some clothes on.  We need to talk to you.
I believe you were at a wedding.  I believe you and Theresa.  Put the
gun down."

I was aware that my shirt was soaked through to the skin.  One of the
children was still lurking behind Brand and Lopez.  In the line of
fire.  Oh God, don't make me shoot this man.

Then slowly, Mitchell Brand lowered his gun from the forehead of
Theresa Lopez.  He kissed the side of her head.  "Sorry, baby," he
whispered.

I was already thinking we'd made a mistake.  I felt it in my gut.  When
he lowered his gun, I knew it.  Maybe somebody had set up Mitchell
Brand.  We'd wasted a lot of time and resources to capture him.  We had
been distracted for days.

I felt the cold breath of the Mastermind on the back of my neck.

Chapter Seventy-One

I came home very late from the East Capitol Dwellings project.  I
wasn't feeling too hot about a lot of things: Working too much;
Christine; the arrest that night of Mitchell Brand.

I needed to wind down so I played Gershwin and Cole Porter on the piano
until I couldn't keep my eyes open any longer.  Then I climbed
upstairs.  I fell fast asleep as soon as my head collided with the
pillow.

I actually slept in the next morning.  I finally joined Nana and Damon
for breakfast around seven-thirty.  This was a big day for the Cross
family.  I wouldn't even be going into work.  I had better things to
do.

We left the house at eight-thirty.  We were on our way to St. Anthony's
Hospital.  Jannie was coming home.

She was waiting for us.  Jannie was all packed up and dressed in blue
jeans and a Concern for the Earth T-shirt when we arrived at her room.
Nana had brought her clothes the day before, but of course Jannie had
told Nana exactly what to bring.

"Let's go, let's go.  I can't wait to get home," she giggled and motor
mouthed as soon as we walked in the door.  "Here's my suitcase, what's
the hurry."  She handed her little pink American Tourister to Damon and
he rolled his eyes, but took the overnighter from her, anyway.

"How long is this special treatment supposed to last?"  he asked.

"Rest of your life."  She set her brother straight about men and women.
"Maybe even longer than that."

Suddenly, a storm cloud of fear crossed Jannie's face," I can go home,
can't I?"  she asked me.

I nodded and smiled.  "You sure can.  But what you can't do, is walk
out of here by yourself.  Hospital rules, little sister."

Jannie looked a little crestfallen.  "Not in a wheelchair.  My grand
exit."

I reached down and picked her up.  "Yes, in a wheelchair," I said. "But
you're all dressed up now.  You look beautiful for your departure,
princess."

We stopped off at the nurses' station and Jannie said her goodbyes and
got some big hugs.  Then we finally left St.  Anthony's Hospital.

She was well now.  The tests on the removed tumor had come back benign.
She had a clean bill of health and I had never felt so relieved in my
life.  If I had ever forgotten how precious she was to me, and I doubt
that I had, I never would again.  Jannie, Damon, and little Alex were
my treasures.

It took us less than ten minutes to ride home and Jannie was like a
frisky little pup in the car.  She had her face out the open window and
was gazing wide-eyed at everything, and sniffing the smoky city air,
which she proclaimed spectacular, absolutely brilliant.

When we got to the house and I parked the car, Jannie climbed out
slowly, almost reverently.  She stared up at our old homestead as if it
were the Cathedral of Notre Dame.  She did a
three-hundred-and-sixty-degree turn, checked out our neighborhood on
Fifth Street, and nodded her approval.

"There's no place like home," she finally whispered, 'just like in The
Wizard of Oz."  She turned to me.  "You even got the Batman and Robin
kite down out of the tree.  Praise the Lord."

I grinned and I could feel something good spreading through my body.  I
knew what it was.  I wasn't petrified of losing Jannie anymore.
"Actually, Nana climbed out there and got the kite down," I said.

"You, stop.  "Nana Mama laughed and waved a hand at me.

We followed Jannie inside the house and she immediately picked up Rosie
the cat.  She held Rosie close to her face and got licked with Rosie's
sandpaper tongue.  Then she slowly danced with the family cat for a
magical moment or two, just as she had on the night of little Alex's
christening.

Jannie softly sang, "Roses are red, violets are blue, I'm so happy I'm
home, I love all of you."

It was so fine and good to watch and be a part of and yes, Jannie
Cross, you're right, there is no place like home.  Maybe that's why I
work so fiercely to protect it.

But then again, maybe I'm just rationalizing about the way I am, and
probably always will be.

Chapter Seventy-Two

I went to the FBI field office early the next morning.  The floor was
buzzing with faxes, phones, personal computers, and energy good and
bad.  It was already pretty clear that Mitchell Brand wasn't our man,
and maybe even that he had been set up.

Betsey Cavalierre had returned from her weekend off.  She had a tan, a
bright smile, and looked nicely rested.  I wondered briefly where she
had been, but then I was sucked into the powerful vortex of the
investigation again.

The high-tech FBI war room was still in place, but now three of the
four walls were covered with possible leads.  The FBI point of view was
that every avenue must be explored.  The director had already gone on
record that it was the largest manhunt in FBI history.  Corporate
America was applying enormous pressure.  The same thing had happened
after the Unabomber had killed a New York businessman in the early
nineties.

I spent most of the day in a windowless, seemingly airless conference
room watching an endless slide show, along with several agents and
Metro police detectives.  Suspects were continuously shown on the big
screen, then discussed, and placed into three categories: Discard,
Active, and Extremely Active.

At six o'clock that night, Senior Agent Walsh held a meeting that
covered the possibility that the crew might strike again soon.  Betsey
Cavalierre arrived late for the briefing.  She sat in the back and
observed.

Two FBI behavioral psychologists had worked up a list of potential
future targets for the Mastermind.  The targets included multinational
banks, other top insurance companies, credit-card companies,
communications conglomerates, and Wall Street firms.

One of the behavioral psychologists, Dr.  Joanna Rodman, stated that
the robberies demonstrated venom and hatred like she'd never seen
before.  She said the perpetrators relished outwitting authorities, and
possibly hungered for fame and notoriety.

Dr.  Rodman then made her most challenging statement.  She believed
that the Mastermind would strike again.  "I'm willing to bet on it,"
she said, 'and I'm not a betting type of person."

I remained quiet for most of the meeting.  I preferred to sit in the
back of the class and listen.  That was the way I had gone through
Georgetown undergraduate and then Johns Hopkins.

Agent Cavalierre would have none of it.  "Dr.  Cross, what do you think
about the possibility of our Mastermind hitting again?"  she asked
shortly after Dr.  Rodman finished speaking.  "Care to make your
bet?"

I rubbed my lower face and I remembered that I'd had the same tic in
grad school.  I sat up in my seat.

"I'm not a betting person either.  I think the list of potential
targets is thorough.  I agree with most of what's been said.  One
person is running this thing.  Different crews were recruited for very
specific tasks."

I frowned slightly at Betsey, then I went on.  "I think the first
robbery-murders were supposed to terrify everybody.  They did.  But in
the Metro Hartford job, the crew was supposed to operate quickly and
efficiently, without bloodshed.  I didn't see evidence of venom or
hatred in the Metro Hartford kidnapping.  Not from what the hostages
told us.  That's inconsistent with the earlier bank robberies.  The
fact that no one was killed makes me believe ... that it's all over.
It's done."

"Thirty million and out?"  Betsey Cavalierre asked.  "That's it?"

I nodded.  "I think the Mastermind's game now is catch me if you can.
And by the way you can't."

Chapter Seventy-Three

Betsey Cavalierre came up to me after the briefing ended," Not to be a
total suck-up, but I agree with you," she said.  "I think he might be
playing with us.  He may have even set up Mitchell Brand."

"I think it's possible," I said.  "Strange and insane as it seems on
the face of it.  He has a huge ego, he's competing, and that's the best
thing we have going for us right now.  It's the only small edge that we
have."

"We're going to break for the night.  Have a drink with me downstairs,
Alex.  I want to talk to you.  I promise not to babble about the
Mastermind."

I winced," Betsey I have to get home tonight.  My little girl came back
from the hospital yesterday," I told her.  "Sorry I can't believe this
has happened twice.  I'm not trying to avoid you."

She smiled kindly.  "I understand and it's no big deal.  I just have
this sixth sense that you need somebody to talk to.  Go home.  I've got
plenty to do here.  One more thing.  A team of us is heading to
Hartford tomorrow.  We're going to interview employees and former
employees at Metro Hartford  You should be part of the group.  It's
important, Alex.  We leave from Boiling Field at around eight."

"I'll be there at Boiling.  Somehow, we'll get the Mastermind.  If he
did set up Mitchell Brand, it's his first mistake.  It means he's
taking chances he doesn't have to take."

I went home and had a fabulous dinner with Nana and the kids, the best
in all of Washington that night.  Nana had cooked a turkey, which she
does once every couple of months.  She says that the white meat of a
turkey, properly prepared, is too good to have only twice a year, at
Christmas and Thanksgiving.

"You see this, Alex?"  she asked and handed me an article she'd clipped
from the Washington Post.  It was a listing compiled by The

Children's Rights Council on the best, and worst, places to raise a
child.  Washington DC was dead last.

"I did see it," I told her.  I couldn't resist a little dig.  "Now you
see why I work late so many nights.  I'm trying to clean up a big mess
here in our capitol city."

Nana looked me in the eye.  "You're losing, big guy," she said.

Irony of ironies, it was the night we always reserved for our weekly
boxing lesson.  Jannie insisted that I go downstairs with Damon and
that she be allowed to watch.  Damon had a line ready for the occasion.
"You just want to see if I get sent to the hospital too."

Jannie retorted, "Lame.  Besides, Dr.  Petito said the boxing lessons,
and your "phantom punch," had nothing to do with my rumor.  Don't kid
yourself, Damo, you are no Muhammad AIL'

So we went down to the cellar and we concentrated on footwork -the
basics.  I even showed the kids how Ali had dazzled Sonny Liston in the
first two fights in Miami and Lewiston, Maine, and then done the same
to Floyd Patterson after Patterson had taunted him for months before
the fight.

"Is this a boxing lesson, or about ancient history?"  Damon finally
asked, his voice a mild complaint.

"Two for the price of one!"Jannie shouted with glee.  "Can't beat that.
Boxing and history.  Works for me."  She was back in all her glory.

After the kids went up to bed, I called Christine and got her answering
machine again.  She wouldn't pick up.  I felt as if a knife had been
slid between my ribs.  I knew I had to move on with my life, but I kept
hoping I could get Christine to change her mind.  Not if she wouldn't
talk to me.  Or even let me talk to little Alex.  I was missing him
badly.

I wound up playing the piano again, and I was reminded that jelly is a
food that usually winds up on white bread, children's faces, and piano
keys.

I carefully wiped down the piano, then I played Bach and Mozart to
soothe my soul.  It didn't work.

Chapter Seventy-Four

The next morning I arrived at Boiling Air Force Base in Anacostia at
ten to eight.  SAC Cavalierre and three other agents, including James
Walsh, got there promptly at eight.  The behaviorist from Quantico, Dr.
Joanna Rodman, showed up a couple of minutes late.  We took off in a
Bell helicopter that was shiny black, both official- and
important-looking.  We were off hunting the Mastermind.  I hoped he
wasn't doing the same thing with us.

We arrived at the downtown Metro Hartford headquarters at nine-thirty.
As I entered the office building, I had the overwhelming feeling that
the place had been consciously designed by the insurance company to
inspire trust, even awe.  The lobby had enormously high ceilings,
glinty glass everywhere, polished black-ice floors, and over scaled
modern art screaming from the walls.  In contrast to the grand public
space, the offices inside looked as if they had been designed by either
the junior architect of the firm or its resident hack.  Warrens of
half-walled cubicles filled large, airless rooms on every floor.  There
was lots of 'prairie dogging' out of the cubes, plenty of fodder for
Dilbert satire.  The FBI had sent agents here before today, but now it
was time for the big guns to go to work.

I saw twenty-eight people that day and I quickly found out that few of
the Metro Hartford employees had any sense of humor.  What's there to
laugh about?  seemed to be the company motto.  It also hit me that
there were very few risk takers among the people I met.  Several of
them actually said, "You can never be too careful."

My very last interview turned out to be the most intriguing.  It was
with a woman named Hildie Rader.  I was bored and distracted, but her
opening line perked me right up.

"I think I met one of the kidnappers.  He was here in downtown
Hartford.  I was as close to him as I am to you right now," she said.

Chapter Seventy-Five

I tried not to show too much surprise.  "Why didn't you tell anybody
before?"  I asked her.

"I called into the hotline Metro Hartford set up.  I talked to a couple
of ding-a-lings.  This is the first anyone got back to me!

"You have my full attention, Hildie," I told her.

She was a large woman with a pretty, homely smile.  She was forty-two
years old and had worked as an executive secretary.  She was no longer
with Metro Hartford which might have been why no one had interviewed
her earlier.  She had been fired twice by the insurance company.  The
first time she was let go was during one of the company's periodic and
fairly regular belt-tightenings.  Two years later Hildie was rehired,
but she was then let go three months ago because of what she described
as 'bad chemistry' with her boss, the CFO of Metro Hartford Louis
Fincher.  Fincher's wife had been one of the tour-bus hostages.

"Tell me about the man you met in Hartford, the one you believe might
have been involved with the hostage-taking," I asked after I'd let her
talk.

"Is there any money in this for me?"  she asked, eyeballing me
suspiciously," I'm presently unemployed, you know."

"The company is offering a reward for information that leads to a
conviction."

She shook her head and laughed.  "Hah!  That sounds like a long,
drawn-out affair.  Besides, I should trust the word of Metro?"

I couldn't deny what she'd said.  I waited for her to collect her
thoughts.  I sensed that she was thinking about just how much she
wanted to tell me.

"I met him in Tom Quinn's.  That's a local watering hole on Asylum
Street near the Ravilion and the Old State House.  We talked, and I

IRC;

liked him okay.  He was a little too charming, though, which set off my
warning alarms.  The charming ones are usually trouble.  Married man?
Fruitcake?

"Anyway, we talked for a while, and he seemed to enjoy himself, but
nothing came of it, if you know what I mean.  He left Quinn's first,
actually.  Then a couple of nights later, I met him again at Quinn's.
Only now, everything's changed.  See, the bartender is a very good
friend of mine.  She told me that this guy had asked her about me
before the night I met him.  He knew my name.  He knew I had worked for
Metro.  Out of sheer curiosity, I talked to him the second time."

"You weren't afraid of the man?"  I asked.

"Not while I was in Tom Quinn's.  They all know me so I'd get help in a
nanosecond if I needed it.  I wanted to know what the hell this guy was
up to.  Then it got pretty clear to me.  He wanted to talk about Metro
Hartford more than about me.  He was clever about it, but he definitely
wanted to talk about the executives.  Who was the most demanding?  Who
called the shots?  Even got into their families.  He asked specifically
about Mr.  Fincher.  And Mr.  Dooner.  Then, just like the other time,
he left before I did."

I nodded as I finished making a few notes.  "You never saw him again,
never heard from him?"

Hildie Rader shook her head and her eyes narrowed.  "I did hear about
him, though.  I have stayed good friends with Liz Becton.  She's one of
the assistants to Mr.  Dooner, the chairman.  He calls the shots at
Metro Hartford

I had seen Dooner in action and I agreed with Hildie.  He was the boss
of bosses at Metro Hartford

"This is interesting," she said to me.  "Liz had met a fella who looked
just like my guy from Quinn's.  Because he was the same guy.  He sat
down next to her at the coffee bar in the Borders on Main Street.  He
chatted Liz up while they sipped expensive caffe mochas, lattes,
whatever.  He wanted to know about, guess what?  The executives at
Metro Hartford  He was one of the kidnappers, wasn't he?"

Chapter Seventy-Six

During the course of a long day, I had learned that nearly seventy
thousand people in the Hartford area were employed in the insurance
industry.  Besides Metro Hartford Aetna, Travelers, Mass Mutual Phoenix
Home Life and United Health Care were all headquartered there.  On
account of this, we had more help than we needed, and more suspects.
The Mastermind might have been associated with any one of the insurance
companies at some time in the past.

After I finished for the day at the insurance company, I got together
to share notes with the others at a nearby Marriott.  The breakthrough
for day one was Hildie Rader's story that one of the crew members had
probably been in Hartford a week before the hostages were taken.

Tomorrow morning we interview both women, Rader and Becton.  Get a
composite drawing made from their description.  As soon as we have
that, we'll show it around corporate headquarters.  Also, have the
composites we made in DC sent up here.  See if there's a match, "Betsey
said.  She smiled then.  "Things are heating up.  Maybe they aren't so
smart, after all."

Around eight-thirty I left the suite to call Jannie and Damon before
they went to bed.  Nana answered the phone.  She knew it was me before
I said a word.

"Everything is just fine here, Alex.  Home fires are burning nicely
without you.  You missed a delicious pot roast supper.  Soon as I knew
you were going to be away, I made your favorite dish."

I rolled my eyes.  I couldn't believe it.  "Did you really make pot
roast?"  I asked Nana.

She cackled for a good half-minute.  "Of course not.  We had prime ribs
of beef, though."  Nana cackled even louder.  Prime ribs were probably
my second favorite dish and I was still hungry after the hotel deli
food, pastrami and processed cheese on stale rye.

Nana laughed again.  "We had turkey sandwiches.  But we did finish up
with hot, homemade pecan pie.  A la mode.  Jannie and Damon are right
here.  We're playing Scrabble, and I'm winning their life savings."

"Nana's winning by a measly twelve points and she already had her
turn," Jannie said as she took the phone.  "Are you all right,
Daddy?"she asked, and her voice became motherly.

"Why shouldn't I be all right?"  I asked her.  I was feeling much
better, actually.  Nana had made me laugh," How are you doing?"

Jannie giggled.  "I'm good as can be.  Damon is being surprisingly
nice.  He brought my homework from school and it's all done.  Aced! I'm
about to take the lead, for good, in our Scrabble game.  We all miss
you, though.  Don't get hurt, Daddy.  Don't you dare get hurt."

I was feeling pretty fried, but I trudged back to finish the work
session with the FBI agents.  Don't get hurt, I was thinking as I
walked the long hotel corridor.  Jannie was beginning to sound like
Christine.  Don't get hurt.  Don't you dare get hurt.

Chapter Seventy-Seven

My mind was somewhere else when I knocked and Betsey Cavalierre
answered the door to her room.  It looked like the other agents had
gone.  She'd changed into a white T-shirt, a pair of jeans, and she
wasn't wearing shoes.

"Sorry.  I had to call home," I apologized.

"We solved everything while you were gone," she grinned.

"Perfect," I said.  "God bless the FBI.  You guys are the best.
Fidelity, Bravery, Integrity."

"You know the motto on our seal.  Actually, everybody was beat.  We
could try for that drink now if you'd like.  You can't have any excuses
left.  How about the Roof Bar I've read so much about in the elevator?
Or we could go see the Connecticut Sports Museum?  The Hartford Police
Museum?"

"The bar on the roof sounds good to me," I said.  "You can show me the
city from up there."

The bar actually had a perfect view of Hartford and the surrounding
countryside.  I could see lighted logos for Aetna and Travelers from
where we sat, as well as Route 84 snaking northeast toward the
Massachusetts Turnpike.  Betsey ordered a glass of Cabernet.  I had a
beer.

"How was everything at home?"  she asked as soon as the bartender left
with our order.

I laughed," I have two kids at home now, and they're both terrific, but
there is a certain amount of flux and change to our lives."

'I'm one of six," she said," The eldest and most spoiled one.  I know
all about flux and change in families."

She smiled and I liked seeing her loosen up.  I liked seeing myself
loosen up.

1OQ

"You have a favorite?  "she asked," Of course you do, but don't tell
me. I know you won't anyway.  I was my father and mother's favorite.
Therein lies the recurring problem in my terribly self-involved life
story."

I continued to smile," What's the problem?  I don't see any problem.  I
thought you were perfect?"

Betsey nibbled salted nuts out of her hand.  She looked me in the eye.
"Overachiever syndrome.  Nothing I did was ever good enough -for me.
Everything had to be perfect.  No mistakes, no slipups," she said and
laughed at herself.  I liked that about her: She had no airs, and her
perspective on things actually seemed pretty healthy.

"You still live up to your own high ideals?"  I asked.

She finger-combed her dark hair away from her eyes.  "I do, and I
don't.  I'm pretty much where I want to be on the work front.  I'm sooo
good for the Bureau.  What's that quote?  "Ambition makes more trusty
slaves than need."  However, I must admit that I'm missing a certain
balance in my life.  Here's a nice image for a life in balance," she
said.  "You're juggling these four balls that you've named work,
family, friends, spirit.  Now, work is a rubber ball.  If you drop it,
it bounces back.  The other balls they're made of glass."

"I've dropped a few of those glass balls in my day.  Sometimes they
chip, sometimes they shatter to pieces."

"Exactly."

Our drinks came and we took the obligatory nervous sips.  Pretty funny.
We both knew what was going on here, though not where it was going, and
if it was a good or a really terrible idea.  She was warmer and much
more nurturing than I had expected.  Betsey was a good listener too.

"I bet you're actually pretty good at balancing work, family, friends.
Your spirit seems okay too," she said.

"I'm not balancing work too well lately.  You have good spirit
yourself. You're enthusiastic, positive.  People like you.  But you've
heard all that before."

"Not so much that I mind hearing it again."  She raised her glass of
wine.  "Here's to positive spirit, and spirits.  And here's to prison
for life plus life, for our friend the Masterprick."

"To prison for life plus life for the Masterprick," I said and raised
my beer.

"So here we are in greater Hartford," she said, staring out at the
blurred scrim of city lights.  I watched her for a moment, and I was
pretty sure that she wanted me to watch her.

"What?"I said.

She started to laugh again and it was infectious.  She had a great
smile that featured her dark sparkling eyes," What do you mean,
what?"

"What?  Just a simple what," I teased.  "You know exactly what I'm
talking about."

She was still laughing.  "I have to ask you this question, Alex.  I
have no choice in the matter.  I have no free will.  Here it comes.
This could be embarrassing, but I don't care.  Okay.  Now, do you want
to go back to my room?  I'd like you to.  No strings attached.  Trust
me.  I won't ever cling."

I didn't know what to say to Betsey, but I didn't say no.

Chapter Seventy-Eight

We were both so quiet as we walked out of the hotel bar.  I was feeling
a little uncomfortable, maybe a lot uncomfortable.

"I kind of like strings," I finally said to her.  "Sometimes I even
like a little clinging."

"I know you do.  Just go with the flow this one time.  It'll be good
for both of us.  This will be nice.  It's been building and it has a
very fine edge."

A very fine edge.

Once we were inside the hotel elevator, Betsey and I kissed for the
first time and it was gentle and sweet.  It was memorable, like first
kisses ought to be.  She had to stretch way up on her tiptoes to reach
my mouth.  I knew I wouldn't forget that.

She started to laugh as soon as we pulled apart her usual burst of
humor," I'm not that small.  I'm five three and a lot, almost five
four.  Was it any good?  Our kiss?"

"I liked kissing you,"I told her.  "But you are that small."

The taste of her mouth was sweet peppermint, and it lingered with me. I
wondered when she had slipped a mint into her mouth.  She was sneaky
fast.  Her skin was soft and smooth to the touch.  Her dark hair
glistened and bounced lightly on her shoulders.  I couldn't deny that I
was attracted.

But what to do about it.  I had the feeling that this was too much too
soon for me.  Way too much, way too soon.

The elevator door opened on her floor with a thud.  I felt a rush of
anticipation, and maybe a rush of fear.  I had no idea what to make of
it, but I knew I liked Betsey Cavalierre.  I wanted to hold her close,
wanted to know who she was, what she was like to be with, how her mind
worked, what she dreamed about, what she might say next.

Betsey said," Walsh."

We quickly stepped back into the elevator car.  My heart clutched.
Shit.

She turned to me and started to laugh.  "Gotcha.  There's nobody out
there.  Don't be so nervous!  ," am, though."

By this time we were both laughing.  She was definitely fun to be with.
Maybe that was enough for now.  I liked being around her, laughing the
way we were.

We hugged as soon as we were inside her room.  She felt so warm.  I let
my fingers trail gently down her back and she sighed softly.  I moved
my thumb in the tiniest circles all over her back.  I gently kneaded
her skin and could feel her breathing pick up tempo.  My heart was
racing too.

"Betsey," I whispered, "I can't do this.  Not yet I can't."

"I know," she whispered back.  "Just hold me, though.  Holding is nice.
Tell me about her, Alex.  You can talk to me."

I thought that she was probably right.  I could talk to her, and I even
wanted to.  "It's like I said, I like ties.  I'm big on intimacy, but I
feel it has to be earned.  I was in love with a woman named Christine
Johnson.  It seemed so right for both of us.  There never was a time I
didn't want to be with her."

I broke down.  I didn't want to, but the sob came out of nowhere.  Then
I was crying a lot and I couldn't make myself stop.  My body was
heaving, but I could feel Betsey holding on to me, holding me tight,
refusing to let go.

'I'm so sorry."  I finally managed a few words.

"Don't be," she said," You didn't do anything wrong.  Not at all.  In
fact, you did everything right."

I finally pulled back a little and I looked at her face.  Her beautiful
brown eyes were wet with tears.

"Let's just hug, "she said.  "I think we both need hugs.  Hugs are
good."

Betsey and I hugged for a long time and then I went back to my room
alone.

Chapter Seventy-Nine

The Mastermind was feeling so goddamned confident, and excited, that he
couldn't stand it.  That night, he was there in Hartford.  He had no
fear anymore.  No one scared him.  Not the FBI.  Not anyone involved
with the case.

How to improve on his own victory ?  How to reinvent himself?  Those
were his only concerns.  How to get better and better.

He had a plan for tonight a different kind of plan.  This maneuver was
so clever, so perverse.  He'd never heard of anything like it.  It was
such a lovely and original 'creation."

The most commonplace part was breaking into the small, garden-style
apartment on the outskirts of Hartford.  He cut out a pane of glass in
the door of the loggia, reached in and turned the knob, and voila -he
was in.

He listened to the house breathe for a delicious moment.  The only
sound he could hear was the wind whistling through a stand of trees
that overlooked the still, black water of a country pond.

He was a little afraid to be inside the house, but the fear was
natural, and intoxicating.  The fear made the moment great for him.  He
slipped on a President Clinton mask the same kind of mask used in the
very first bank robbery.

He quietly made his way toward the master bedroom at the back of the
apartment.  This was getting so good.  He almost felt that he belonged
here now.  Possession was ninety-nine percent of the law.  Wasn't that
the old saying?

The moment of truth!

He quietly, quietly opened the bedroom door.  The room smelled of
sandalwood and jasmine.  He paused in the doorway until his eyes became
accustomed to the low light.  He squinted as he stared into the

1QK

room, studied it, got his bearings.  He saw her!

Now!  Go!  Not a second to lose.

He moved very fast.  He seemed to fly across the room and on to the
queen-size bed.  He fell on the sleeping figure with his full weight.

There was an ooff, then a startled cry.  He slapped a wad of
electrician's tape across her mouth, then handcuffed both slender
wrists to the bedpost.

Click-dick.  So fast, so efficient.

His hostage tried to scream, tried to twist and turn and break free.
She had on a yellow silk ted die  He loved the feel of it, so he
slipped it off her body.  He caressed the silk, ran it over his face.
Then back and forth through his teeth.

"It's not going to happen.  You can't get away.  Stop trying!  It's
annoying.

"Please try to relax.  You're not going to be hurt," he said then.
"It's important to me that you not be harmed."

He gave her a few seconds to take in what he said.  To understand.

He stooped close until his face was only inches from hers.  'I'm going
to explain why I'm here, what I plan to do.  I will be very, very clear
and precise.  I trust that you won't tell a soul about this, but if you
ever do, I'll come back as easily as I did tonight.  I'll get through
any security system you can buy, and I will torture you.  I will kill
you but first I'll do much worse than that."

The prey nodded.  At last understanding.  "Torture' was the magic word.
Perhaps it ought to be used more in schools.

"I've been watching and studying you for a while.  I think you're just
perfect for me.  I'm certain, and I'm usually right about these things.
I'm right over ninety-nine percent of the time."

The hostage was lost again.  He could see it in her eyes.  The lights
were on, but nobody was home.

"Here's the idea, the concept.  I'm going to try and gave you a baby
tonight.  Yes, you heard right.  I want you to have the baby," the
Mastermind finally explained.  "I've studied your fertility rhythms,
your contraceptive program.  Don't ask how, but I have.  Trust me.  I'm
very serious about this.

"If you don't have the baby, I will come back for you, Justine.  If you
abort the baby, I will torture you horribly, then kill you.  But don't
worry, this child will be very special, "said the Mastermind," This
child will be a masterpiece.  Make love to me, Justine."

Chapter Eighty

At noon the next day, the case seemed to take another terrible, and
unexpected twist.  I was in an interview at Metro Hartford when Betsey
broke in.  She asked me to please come out into the hallway.  Her face
was ashen.

"Oh no, what?"  I managed to say.

"Alex, this is so creepy that I'm still shaking.  Listen to what just
happened.  Last night, a twenty-five-year-old woman was raped in her
apartment in a suburb outside Hartford.  The rapist told her he wanted
her to have his baby.  After he left, she went to a hospital and the
police were called in.  In their report, it states that the rapist wore
a Clinton mask like the one worn at the first bank robbery, Alex and
also, that he called himself a mastermind."

"Is the woman still at the hospital?  Are the police with her?"I asked.
My mind was racing, already filled with possibilities, rejecting the
notion of coincidence out of hand.  A mastermind in a Clinton mask,
just outside Hartford?  It was too close.

"She left the hospital and went home, Alex.  They just found her dead.
He warned her not to tell anyone, and not to abort.  She disobeyed him.
She made a mistake.  He poisoned her, Alex.  Goddamn him."

Betsey Cavalierre and I went to the dead woman's apartment and the
scene was beyond horrifying.  The woman lay on her kitchen floor,
grotesque and twisted.  I remembered the bodies of Brianne and Enrol
Parker.  The poor woman had been punished.  FBI technicians were all
over the small garden apartment.  There was nothing Betsey or I could
do there.  The bastard had been right there in Hartford maybe he still
was.  He was taunting us.

This was as stressful as any case I'd ever worked.  Whoever was

behind the robberies and gruesome murders was impossible to trace, to
figure out in a meaningful way.

Who the hell was the Mastermind?  Had he really been here in Hartford
last night and this morning?  Why was he taking chances like this?

I worked at the Metro Hartford offices until almost seven.  I was
trying not to show it, but I was close to a burnout.  I interviewed
several more employees, and then I went to the personnel office and
read nuisance mail aimed at Metro Hartford  There were stacks of it.
Generally, the hate mail came from grieving and angry family members
who had been denied claims or felt the process was taking too long
which it usually did.  I talked for an hour or so with the head of the
building's security, Terry Mayer.  She was separate from Steve Bolding,
who was an outside consultant.  Terry gave me the procedures for mail
surveillance, bomb threats, e-mail threats, and even a widely
distributed form on how to be alert for possible letter bombs.  "We
were prepared for a lot of potential disasters," Mayer told me, 'just
not for the one that happened."

I was just going through the motions all day.  I kept seeing the
poisoned woman.  The Mastermind had wanted her to have his baby.  That
probably meant that he didn't have any kids of his own.  He wanted an
heir, a tiny piece of immortality.

Chapter Eighty-One

I returned to Washington on the last flight out that night.  When I
arrived home it was a few minutes past eleven.  Bright light
illuminated the kitchen windows.  The upstairs was dark.  The kids were
probably asleep.

"I'm home," I announced as I edged open the creaky kitchen door.  It
needed oil, I noticed.  I was falling way behind on my home repairs
again.

"You catch all the bad guys?  "Nana asked from her catbird seat at the
table.  A paperback book called The Color of Water was propped in front
of her.

"We're moving in the right direction.  The bad guy made a couple of
mistakes finally.  He's taking a lot of chances.  I'm more hopeful than
I was.  You like the book?"  I asked.  I wanted to change the subject.
I was home.

Nana pursed her lips, gave me a half-smile.  "I'm hopeful.  The man can
certainly write up a storm.  Don't stray off my topic, though.  Sit
down and talk to me, Alex."

"Can I stand and talk, and maybe put together a little supper for
myself?"

Nana frowned, shook her head in disbelief.  "They didn't feed you on
the airplane?"

"Dinner on the flight was honey-roasted peanuts and a small plastic cup
of Coke.  It fit with the rest of the day.  This chicken and biscuits
any good?"

Nana slanted her head to one side.  She frowned at me from the sideways
angle.  "No, it's spoiled.  I put it away spoiled.  What do you think,
Alex?  Of course it's good.  It's a down-home culinary masterpiece."

I stopped peering into the fridge and stared over at her.  "Excuse me.
Are we having a fight?"

"Not at all.  You'd know it if we were.  How are you?  I'm fine myself.
You're working too hard again.  But you seem to thrive on it.  Still
the Dragonslayer, right?  Live by the sword and all that?"

I took the chicken out of the fridge.  I was famished.  Probably could
have eaten it cold.  "Maybe this whacked-out case will be over soon."

"Then there'll be another one and another one after that.  I saw a
pretty good saying the other day there's always room for improvement
-then you die.  What do you think of that one?"

I nodded and let out a deep sigh.  "You tired of being with a homicide
detective, too?  Can't say that I blame you."

Nana crinkled up her face.  "No, not at all.  Actually, I enjoy it. But
I do understand why it might not be to everyone's liking."

"I do, too, especially on days like today.  I don't like what happened
between Christine and me.  I hate it, actually.  Makes me sad.  Hurts
my heart.  But I do understand what she was afraid of.  It scares me
too."

Nana's head bobbed slowly.  "Even if it can't be Christine, you still
need someone.  So do Jannie and Damon.  How about you get those
priorities straight."

"I spend a lot of time with the kids.  But I'll work on it," I said as
I plopped the cold chicken and fixings in a pan.

"How can you, Alex?  You're always working on murder cases.  That seems
to be your priority these days."

Nana's statement hurt.  Was it the truth?  "These days, there seem to
be a lot of bad murder cases.  I'll find someone.  Has to be somebody
out there will think I'm worth a little trouble."

Nana cackled.  "Probably some serial killer.  They sure seem attracted
to you."

I finally trudged up to bed around one o'clock.  I was at the top of
the stairs when the phone started to ring.  Damn it!  I cursed and
hurried to my room.  I picked up before it woke the whole house.

"Yeah?"

"Sorry.  "I heard a whispering voice.  "I'm sorry, Alex."

It was Betsey.

I was glad to hear her voice anyway. "It's all right.  What's up," I
asked.

"Alex, we have a break in the case.  It's good news.  Something just
happened.  A fifteen-year-old girl in Brooklyn made a claim on the

9m insurance-company reward!  This is being taken very seriously in New
York.  The girl says her father was one of the men involved in the
Metro Hartford job.  She knows the others involved too.  Alex, they're
New York police detectives.  The Mastermind is a cop."

Chapter Eighty-Two

The Mastermind is a cop.  If it was true, it made sense out of a whole
lot of things.  It partly explained how he'd known so much about bank
security, and about us.

At five-fifteen in the morning, I met Betsey Cavalierre and four other
FBI agents at Boiling Field.  A helicopter was waiting for us.  We took
off into a thick, gray soup that made the ground disappear seconds
after we were airborne.

We were pumped up and extremely curious.  Betsey sat in the first row
with one of her senior agents, Michael Doud.  She was wearing a light
gray suit with a white blouse, and she looked serious and official
again.  Agent Doud handed out folders on the suspected New York City
detectives.

I read the background material as we flew steadily toward New York. The
detectives in question were from Brooklyn.  They worked out of the
Sixty-first Precinct, which was near Coney Island and Sheepshead Bay.
The crib notes said the precinct was a mix of cultures and assorted
criminals: Mafia, Russian mob, Asians, Hispanics, Blacks.  The five
suspected detectives had worked together for a dozen years and were
reportedly close friends.

They were supposed to be 'good cops," the file said.  There had been
warning signals, though.  They'd used their weapons more than average,
even for narcotics detectives.  Three of the five had been disciplined
repeatedly.  They jokingly called one another'goomba.  "The leader of
the pack was Detective Brian Macdougall.

There were also about a half-dozen pages on the fifteen-year-old
witness: Detective Brian Macdougall's daughter.  She was an honor
student at Ursuline High School.  She was apparently a loner there and
never had many friends.  She seemed to be responsible and solid and

9m believable, according to the NYPD detectives who had interviewed
her.  Her reason for giving up her father was credible too he drank and
struck her mother often when he was home.  "And he's guilty of the
Metro Hartford kidnapping.  He and his detective pals did it," said the
girl.

Actually, I felt very good about this.  It was the way police work
usually went.  You put out a lot of nets, you checked them, and every
so often something was actually in one of the nets.  More often than
not, it came from a relative or friend of the perp.  Like an angry
daughter who wanted retribution against her father.

At seven-thirty, we entered the conference room at One Police Plaza and
met up with several members of the NYPD, including the chief of
detectives.  I was the representative from the Washington police, and I
knew Kyle Craig was instrumental in getting me into the meeting.  He
wanted me to hear the girl's story first-hand.

Kyle wanted to know if I believed her.

Chapter Eighty-Three

Veronica Macdougall was already in the large conference room.  She wore
wrinkled blue jeans and a ratty green sweatshirt.  Her curly red hair
was unkempt.  The darkish, puffy rings under both eyes told me she
hadn't slept in a while.

Veronica stared impassively at us as we introduced ourselves around a
massive mahogany and glass conference table inside what the NYPD called
The Big Building."  Chief of Detectives Andrew Gross then introduced
the girl.  "Veronica is a very brave young woman," he said  "She'll
tell her story in her own words."

The girl took a quick, deep breath.  Her eyes were small green beads
and they were filled with fear.  "I wrote out something last night.
Organized myself.  I'll give my statement, and then there can be
questions if you want."

Chief of Detectives Gross broke in gently.  He was a heavyset man with
a thick gray mustache and long side-burns.  His manner was subdued.
"That would be fine, Veronica.  However you want to do it.  However it
happens to go is perfect for us.  Take your time."

Veronica shook her head and looked very, very unsteady.  'I'm okay.  I
need to do this," she said.  Then she began her story.

"My father is what you people call a man's man.  He's very proud of it
too.  He's loyal to his friends, and especially to other cops.  He's
this "great guy," right?  Well, there's another side to him.  My mother
used to be pretty.  That was ten years and thirty pounds ago.  She
needs nice things.  I mean, she physically needs things, possessions
like clothes and shoes.  She is her possessions.

"She's not the smartest person in the world, but my father thinks he is
right up there and that's why he picks on her unmercifully.  A few
years back he started to drink a lot.  And then he started to get
really

mean, to hit my mother.  He calls her "the bag," and "speed bag." Isn't
that clever of him?"

Veronica paused and looked around the room; she checked our reaction to
what she was saying.  The conference room was eerily silent.  None of
us could look away from the teenager and the anger blooming in those
green eyes.

"That's why I'm here today.  That's how I'm able to do this terrible
thing to "rat out" my own father.  To break the sacred Blue Wall."

She stopped and stared defiantly at us again.  I couldn't take my eyes
away from her.  No one in the room could.  This made so much sense: A
break coming from a family member.

"My father doesn't realize that I'm actually a lot smarter than he is,
and I'm also observant.  Maybe I learned that from him.  I remember
when I was around ten or so, I just knew I was going to be a police
detective too.  Pretty ironic, huh.  Pretty pathetic, don't you
think?

"As I got older I noticed observed that my father had lots more money
than he ought to have.  Sometimes he would take us on a "guilt trip"
Ireland, maybe the Caribbean.  And he always had money for himself.
Really good clothes, fancy threads from Barneys and Saks.  A new car
every other year.  A sleek white sailboat parked in Sheepshead Bay.

"Last summer my father was disgustingly drunk one Friday night.  I
remember he was going out to Aqueduct racetrack with his running dog
detective pals on Saturday.  He took a walk to my grandmother's house,
which is a few streets away from us.  I followed him that night.  He
was too far gone to even notice.

"My father went to an old gardening shed behind my grandmother's.
Inside the shed, he moved away a workbench and some wooden slats.  I
couldn't tell exactly what he was doing, so I came back the next day
and looked behind the boards.  There was money inside a lot.  I don't
know where it came from, still don't.  But I knew it wasn't his
detective's pay.  I counted almost twenty thousand dollars.  I took a
few hundred, and he never even noticed.

"I became more observant after that.  Recently, over say the past month
or so, my father and his friends were up to something.  His goombas. It
was so obvious.  They were always together after work.  One night, I
heard him mention something about Washington DC to his pal, Jimmy
Crews.  Then he went away for four days.

"He got home on the fourth afternoon.  It was the day after the Metro
Hartford kidnapping.  He started to "celebrate" at around three,

and he was flying high by seven.  That night, he broke my mom's
cheekbone.  He cut her eye and could have put it out.  My father wears
this stupid signet ring from St.  John's.  The Redmen now the Red
Storm, you know.  I went to my grandma's shed that night and I found
more money.  I couldn't believe it.  There's so much money there, all
cash."

Veronica Macdougall reached under the table and she hoisted up a
powder-blue backpack, the kind kids wear to school.  She opened it. She
pulled out several stacks of bills and showed us the money.  Her face
was a mask of shame and pain.

"Here's ten thousand four hundred dollars.  It was right there in my
grandmother's shed.  My father put it there.  My father was in on that
kidnapping in Washington.  He thinks he's so goddamn smart."

Only then, once she was finished telling us what her father had done,
did Veronica Macdougall finally break down and cry.  'I'm sorry," she
kept saying.  'I'm so, so sorry."  I think she was apologizing for what
he had done.

Chapter Eighty-Four

I believed her, and I was still reeling from hearing Veronica
Macdougall's chilling confession about her policeman father.  An
intriguing question was whether the crew of Brooklyn detectives had
'masterminded' the earlier bank robberies, too.  Had they murdered
several people in cold blood before they attempted the Metro Hartford
kidnapping?  Was one of the detectives the Mastermind?

I had plenty of time to think about it during an interminable day of
politicking and infighting involving the FBI, the mayor, and the New
York police commissioner.  Meanwhile, the five Brooklyn detectives were
put under surveillance, but we weren't given the go-ahead to bring them
in.  It was frustrating, maddening, like being stuck for a day on the
Long Island Expressway in a traffic jam, or on a New York subway.  The
detectives' attendance records were being checked against the days all
of the robberies took place.  Credit and spending checks were run on
each of them.  Other detectives, even snitches, were quietly
interviewed.  The money found at Brian Macdougall's mother's house had
been retrieved and it was definitely part of the ransom.

As of six o'clock, nothing had been decided.  None of us could believe
the delay.  Betsey surfaced briefly and reported that no progress had
been made so far.  Around seven, I went and checked into a hotel for
the night.

I kept getting angrier and angrier.  I took a hot shower and then I
leafed through a Zagat's guide, looking for a good place to eat
downtown.  Around nine, I finally ordered from room service.  I'd been
thinking about Christine and Alex.  I didn't feel like going out. Maybe
if Betsey had been available, but she was tied up, raging against the
machine at Police Plaza.

9flQ

I propped myself up in bed and tried to read Prayers for Rain by Dennis
Lehane.  I was on a string of books that I'd enjoyed lately: The
Pilot's Wife, The Pied Piper, Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone,
the Lehane.

I couldn't concentrate.  I wanted to take down the five New York
detectives.  I wanted to be home with the kids, and I wanted little
Alex to be part of our family.  That was the one thing that had kept me
going strong lately.

Finally, I started to think about Betsey Cavalierre.  I had been trying
not to, but now I remembered our'date'in Hartford.  I liked her it was
as simple as that.  I wanted to see her again and I hoped she wanted to
see me.

The phone in my room rang around eleven o'clock.  It was Betsey.  She
sounded tired and frustrated and decidedly non-peppy for her.

'I'm just finishing up here at Police Plaza.  I hope.  Believe it or
not, we're set to take them down tomorrow.  You definitely wouldn't
believe the bullshit that's gone on today.  Lots of talk about the
detectives' civil rights.  Plus the effect on morale inside the NYPD.
Making the arrest "the right way."  Nobody's willing to say that these
are five very bad actors.  They're probably killers.  Take their sorry
asses down."

"They're five very bad actors.  Take their sorry asses down," I said to
her.

I heard her laugh and I could picture her smile.  "That's what we're
doing, Alex.  Bright and early tomorrow morning.  We're taking them
down.  Maybe we'll get the Mastermind too.  I have to be here at least
another hour.  I'll see you in the morning.  Early."

Chapter Eighty-Five

Four o'clock comes very early in the morning.  That was the hour we
were scheduled to hit the homes of the five detectives.  Everything was
set.  The politicking was done; at least I hoped it was over.

Three-thirty comes even earlier and that was when we met somewhere in
Nassau County out on Long Island.  I didn't know much about the area,
but it was upscale and pretty, a far cry from Fifth Street and
Southeast.  Someone on the team said the neighborhood was unusual
because a lot of cops and also Mafia people lived there in apparent
harmony.

This was a federal case and Betsey Cavalierre was officially in charge
of the arrests.  It illustrated the regard in which she was held back
in Washington, if not in New York.

"I'm happy to see that everybody is bright-eyed and bushy-tailed this
morning?  Night?  Whatever time zone we're in?"  She offered up a joke
and got a few smiles from the troops.  There were about forty of us, a
mix of police and FBI, but the Bureau was definitely in charge of the
morning's raids.  She divided us into teams, and I was in her group.

Everybody was ready, and incredibly pumped-up.  We drove to a
split-level house on High Street in Massapequa.  No one seemed to be up
in the suburban neighborhood.  A dog started barking in one of the
yards nearby.  Dew glistened on every manicured lawn.  Life seemed good
out here where Detective Brian Macdougall lived with his battered wife
and bitterly angry daughter.

Betsey spoke into her Handie-Talkie.  She seemed extremely cool under
fire.  "Radio check.  Then, "Team A, through the front door.  Team B,
kitchen.  Team C, sun porch.  Team D is backup ... Now.  Go!  Take him
down!"


The agents and police detectives swarmed toward the house on her
signal.  Betsey and I got to watch them quickly move in.  We were Team
D, the backup.

Team A was inside the house fast and cleanly.

Then so was Team B. We couldn't see the third team from where we were
parked.  They went in the back.

There was shouting inside.  Then we heard a loud pop.  Percussive,
definitely a gunshot.

"Oh, shit."  Betsey looked over at me.  "Macdougall was waiting for us.
How the hell did that happen?"

There were several more gunshots.  Someone yelled.  A woman began to
scream and curse.  Was it Veronica Macdougall's mother?

Betsey and I jumped out of the car and moved quickly toward the
Macdougall house.  We still didn't go inside.  I was thinking that four
other houses in Brooklyn were being hit right now.  I hoped there
wasn't more trouble like this.

Talk to me," Betsey said into her Handie-Talkie.  "What's happening in
there?  Mike?  What the hell is wrong?"

"Rice is down.  I'm outside the master bedroom on the second floor.
Macdougall and his wife are inside."

"How is Rice?"  she asked, very concerned.

"Chest wound.  He's conscious.  Wound is sucking bad, though.  Get an
ambulance here now!  Macdougall shot him."

Suddenly a window on the second floor opened.  I saw a figure come out
of the window and run in a low crouch across the attached garage
roof.

Betsey and I sprinted toward the man.  I remembered that she'd been a
good lacrosse player at Georgetown.  She could still move.

"He's outside!  Macdougall's up on the roof over the garage," she
reported to the others.

"I got him," I told her.  He was angling toward where the garage roof
intersected with a row of feathery-looking fir trees.  I couldn't see
what was beyond the trees, but I figured it had to be another yard,
another house.

"Macdougall!"I  yelled at the top of my voice.  "Stop!  Police!  Stop
or I'll shoot!"

He didn't look back, didn't stop, and didn't hesitate.  Macdougall
jumped down into the trees.

Chapter Eighty-Six

I ran with my head down, right through a barrier of thick bushes that
scraped and cut my arms until there was blood.  Brian Macdougall hadn't
gotten very far into the yard next door.

I raced for a dozen steps after him, and then I tackled him.  I aimed
my right shoulder at the back of his knees.  I wanted to hurt
Macdougall if I possibly could.

He went down hard but he was as loaded up with adrenaline as I was.  He
rolled and twisted out of my arms.  He popped up fast and so did I,"
You should have stayed down," I told him," You're not supposed to make
mistakes.  Getting up was a mistake."

I hit Macdougall with a hard, straight overhand right.  It felt very
good.  His head snapped back about six inches.

I bobbed a little.  Macdougall threw a wild hook that missed me
completely.  I hit him again.  His knees buckled but he didn't go down.
He was a tough street cop.

"I'm impressed,"I told him, taunted him.  "You still should have stayed
down, though."

"Alex!"  I heard Betsey yell as she entered the yard.

Macdougall threw a pretty good punch, but he telegraphed it a little.
It glanced off the side of my forehead.  I could have taken the punch
if it had connected.  "That's better," I told him.  "Get the weight off
your heels, Brian."

Alex!  "Betsey called again," Take him down, goddammit!  Now!"

I wanted the physical contact with Macdougall, the release, just
another minute in the ring.  I felt I'd earned it and he deserved
whatever got doled out here.  He threw another looping punch, but I
sidestepped the hit.  He was already tired.

"You're not beating up on your wife or your little girl now," I said,"
You're dealing with somebody your own size.  I fight back,
Macdougall."

"Fuck you," he snarled but he was gasping for a breath.  His face and
neck were coated with sweat.

"Are you the man?  Are you the Mastermind, Brian?  You kill all those
people?"

He didn't answer me, so I hit him hard in the stomach.  He doubled up,
his face tight with pain.

Betsey had come up to the two of us by now.  So had a couple of other
agents.  They just watched; they understood what this was about.  They
wanted it to happen too.

"Balls of your feet."  I gave Macdougall a fight tip.  "You're still
fighting back on your heels."

He mumbled something.  I couldn't make it out.  Didn't much care what
he had to say.  I hit him in the stomach again," See?  Kill the body,"
I told him.  "I teach my kids the same thing."

I threw another uppercut into his stomach.  He wasn't flabby, and the
punch felt good, like hitting a heavy bag.  Then a sharp uppercut right
on the tip of Macdougall's chin.  He went down hard, face-first on the
lawn.  He stayed there.  He was out.

I stood over him, panting a little, sweating some.  "Brian Macdougall.
I asked you a question.  Are you the Mastermind?"

Chapter Eighty-Seven

The next two days were draining and wildly frustrating.  The five
detectives were being held at the Metropolitan Correctional Center at
Foley Square.  It was a secure place where mob informants and other
crooked policemen were sometimes kept for their own safety.

I interviewed each of the detectives, starting with the youngest,
Vincent O'Malley, and ending up with Brian Macdougall who appeared to
be the leader.  One after the other, the detectives denied any
involvement in the Metro Hartford kidnapping.

Hours after my initial interview with Brian Macdougall, he asked to see
me again.

When the shackled detective was brought into the interrogation room at
Foley Square, I had a feeling that something had changed.  I could see
it in his face.

Macdougall was visibly upset when he spoke.  "It's different than I'd
thought it would be.  In jail.  Sitting here on the wrong side of the
table.  It's more a defensive game, you know.  You try and hit the ball
back over the net."

"You want anything?"  I asked him.  "Cold drink?"

"Cigarette?"

I called for cigarettes to be brought into the interrogation room.
Someone popped in with a pack of Marlboros, then immediately left.
Macdougall lit up and he puffed luxuriously, as if smoking a Marlboro
were the greatest pleasure the world had to offer.  Maybe it seemed
like it now.

I watched his eyes drift in and out of focus.  He was obviously bright,
thoughtful.  The Mastermind?  I waited patiently to hear what he wanted
from me.  He wanted something.

"I've seen a lot of detectives do this," he said then he blew out a
cloud of smoke.  "You know how to listen.  You don't make mistakes."

There was a brief silence.  We both had all the time in the world.
"What do you want from us?"  I finally asked.

"Right question, Detective.  I'll get to that soon.  Y'know, I was a
decent enough cop in the beginning," he said.  "It's when those first
ideals go that you have to be careful."

"I'll try to remember," I said, smiling faintly, trying not to
condescend.

"What keeps you going?"Macdougall asked.  He seemed interested in my
answer.  Maybe I amused him.  More likely, he was playing with me,
though.  That was okay for now.

I looked into his eyes and I saw emptiness, maybe even remorse.  "I
don't want to disappoint my family, or myself.  It's just the way I'm
built.  Maybe I don't have much of an imagination."

Smoke drifted through his fingers.  "You asked me what I wanted?  It
was the right question.  I always act out of self-interest, always
have."  He sighed out loud.  "All right, let me tell you what I'm
looking for."

I knew enough to listen, not talk.

"First of all, nobody got hurt from Metro Hartford  We've never hurt
anybody on any of our jobs."

"What about the Buccieris?  James Bartlett?  Ms Collins?"  I asked.

Macdougall shook his head," I didn't do those jobs.  You know I didn't
do them.  ," know you know."

He was right, at least I didn't believe they had done the earlier jobs.
The style was different for those.  Plus, the detectives' attendance
logs showed they had worked on several of the days when robberies took
place.  "Okay.  So where do we go from here?  You also know that we
want to get the person who set up the jobs.  That's what we care about
now."

"I know that.  So here's my offer.  It'll be hard for everybody to
swallow, but it's non-negotiable.  I want the best deal that I ever saw
as a cop.  That means witness protection inside a country club like
Greenhaven.  I'm out in ten years' maximum time.  I've seen that same
deal on counts of murder one.  I know what can be done, and what can't
be."

I didn't say anything, but I didn't have to.  Macdougall knew I
couldn't make the deal by myself.  "Let me hear the punch line," I
said.  "What do we get from you?"

He stared into my eyes.  His look was unwavering.

"In return I'll give him to you.  I'll tell you how to find the guy who
planned the jobs.  He's called the Mastermind.  I know where he is."

Book Five

All Fall Down

Chapter Eighty-Eight

The FBI, NYPD, and the Justice Department were holding a series of
high-level meetings to try to frame the best possible response to Brian
Macdougall's offer.  I was fairly certain that nothing decisive would
happen with Macdougall until at least Monday.

At four-thirty I took the shuttle back to Washington.  Betsey
Cavalierre and Michael Doud stayed in New York, just in case something
happened.

I had some important business myself.  That night, the kids, Nana, and
I went to see Star Wars: Episode 1 The Phantom Menace.  We had a good
time, though we'd hoped to see more of Samuel L Jackson in the film.  I
had been noticing a subtle change between Jannie and Damon.  Since
she'd been sick, Damon was so much more patient with her.  Jannie was
also pulling some punches with her brother, torturing him less.  They
had grown up a lot in the past few weeks.  I figured they were becoming
friends and that would last for the rest of their lives.

Early on Saturday, I decided to have a heart-to-heart with the kids.  I
had already taken some good counsel from Nana about what needed to be
said to them.  Her own response was typical Nana: She was sorry as
could be about what had happened between Christine and me.  As for
little Alex, she said she couldn't wait for him to comeT love babies,
Alex.  This will add ten years to my life."  I almost believed her.

"This is not good," Damon proclaimed as he stared across the breakfast
table at me.  "Is it?"

I grinned at him.  "Well, that's only half true.  Where do I begin with
this?"I said, stumbling a little out of the gate.

"At the beginning," Jannie suggested.

The beginning?  Where exactly was the beginning?

I finally just dove into the subject matter.  "Christine and I have
been very close for a long time.  I think you both know that.  We still
are, but things have changed lately.  After the school year, she's
going to move away from the Washington area.  I don't know exactly
where she's going yet.  We won't be seeing her as much, though."

Jannie's jaw dropped and Damon spoke up.  "She's different in school,
Dad.  Everybody says so.  She gets mad easy.  She always looks sad."

It hurt for me to hear that.  I felt it was partly my fault.  "She went
through a very bad, very scary thing,"I said to him.  "It's hard for
anyone to imagine what it was like for her.  She's still recovering
from it.  It might take a while longer."

Jannie finally spoke and her voice was surprisingly small.  Her eyes
were full of concern and worry.  "What about the big boy?"  she
asked.

"Little Alex is going to come live with us.  That's the good news I
promised."

"Hooray!  Hooray!"  Jannie shouted and did one of her impromptu dances.
"I love little A}."

"That's real good," Damon said and beamed approval.  'I'm glad he's
coming home."

I was too, and I wondered how a single moment could be so joyful, but
also so sad.  The boy was coming to live with us, but Christine was
gone.  It was official now; I had told Nana Mama and the kids.  I
hadn't felt so empty and alone for a long time.

Chapter Eighty-Nine

The more dangerous it was, the better the thrill.  The Mastermind
already knew the truth in that maxim, and this was dangerous indeed.
The money was nice; but the money wasn't enough.  It was the danger
that got his adrenaline flowing and turned him on.

FBI agent James Walsh lived alone in a small rented ranch house out in
Alexandria.  The house was as plain and unassuming as Agent Walsh
himself.  It suited his personality perfectly.  It was such an 'honest'
and 'forthcoming' abode.

The Mastermind had little trouble getting into the house and that
didn't surprise him.  Police officers could be incredibly sloppy about
security systems in their own homes.  Walsh was lax, or maybe he was
just arrogant.

He wanted to get in and out quickly, but the Mastermind didn't want to
be careless.  The floorboards creaked.  He already knew that he'd been
inside the house before.

The floorboards continued to make distressing noises as he got closer
and closer to James Walsh's bedroom.

The more dangerous, the better.  The more outrageous, the greater the
thrill.

That was how it always worked for him.

He slowly, silently pushed open the bedroom door and he started to
enter, when

"Don't move, "Walsh said from the semi-darkness of the room.

He could just barely see the FBI agent across the bedroom.  Walsh had
positioned himself behind the bed.  He had a shotgun in his hands.
Walsh kept the gun under his bed, never slept without it there.

"You can see the gun, mister.  It's aimed right at your goddamned
chest.  I won't miss you, I promise."

"So I see," the Mastermind said and chuckled softly.  "Checkmate, huh?
You caught the Mastermind.  How clever of you."

Still smiling, he started to walk toward Walsh.

The more dangerous, the better.

"Don't!  Stop!"  Walsh suddenly yelled at him.  "Stop or I'll shoot!

STOP!"

"Yes, as you promised," the Mastermind said.

He didn't stop, didn't slow down a step, kept coming inexorably.

Then he heard Agent Walsh pull the trigger.  The single action that was
supposed to cause his death, stop his world, solve the crime spree. But
nothing happened.

"Awhh, and you promised, Agent Walsh."

He put his own handgun against the FBI agent's forehead.  With his free
hand, he brushed across Walsh's crewcut head.

"I'm the Mastermind, you're not.  You've been dying to catch me, but
I've caught you.  I emptied your shotgun.  I'm going to catch all of
you.  One by one.  Agents Walsh, Doud, Cavalierre.  Maybe even
Detective Alex Cross.  You're all going to die."

Chapter Ninety

I arrived at James Walsh's home in Virginia around midnight on Sunday.
Several of the neighbors were circulating nervously out on the street.
I heard an elderly woman mutter and sigh," Such a nice man.  What a
shame, what a waste.  He was an FBI agent, you know."

I knew.  I took a deep breath and then I plunged inside the modest
house where Walsh had lived and died.  The Bureau was there in large
numbers and so was the local police.  Because an agent had died, the
Violent Crime Unit had been called in from Quantico.

I spotted Agent Mike Doud and I hurried over to him.  Doud looked ashen
and maybe close to losing it.

"I'm sorry," I said to him.  He and Walsh had been close friends.  Doud
lived nearby in the Virginia suburbs.

"Oh Jesus.  Jimmy never said a word to me.  I was his best friend for
God's sake."

I nodded.  "What do you know so far?  What happened?"

Doud pointed toward the bedroom.  "Jimmy's in there.  I guess he killed
himself, Alex.  He left a note.  Hard to believe."

I crossed the sparsely decorated living room.  I knew from talking to
him that Walsh had been divorced a couple of years ago.  He had a
sixteen-year-old son in prep school, and another at Holy Cross, where
Walsh had gone himself.

James Walsh was waiting for me in the bathroom connected to the
bedroom.  He was curled up on the off-white tile floor, which was
flooded with a lot of his blood.  I could see what was left of the back
of his head as I entered the room.

Doud came up behind me.  He held out the suicide note, which had been
placed into a plastic evidence bag.  I read it without removing the
plastic.  The note was to Walsh's two sons.

It finally got to be too much for me.  This job; this case; everything
else.  Andrew, Peter, I'm truly sorry about this.

Love,

Your dad

A cell phone sounded and it startled me.  It was Doud's phone.  He
answered, but then handed it to me," It's Betsey,"he said.

"I'm on my way to the airport.  Oh Alex, why would he do such a
thing?"I  heard her voice.  She was obviously still in New York.  "Oh
poor Jim.  Poor Jim.  Why would he kill himself?  I don't believe it.
He's not the type."

Then she sobbed loudly into the phone, and though she was far away, I
had never felt closer to her.

I didn't say what I was thinking.  I held it inside and it chilled me a
little.  Maybe Betsey's gut reaction was right.  Maybe James Walsh
didn't kill himself.

Chapter Ninety-One

I returned to New York City early on Monday morning.  There was a nine
o'clock briefing at FBI headquarters in Manhattan, and I made it just
in time.  I was holding a lot inside, holding it tight, trying not to
look like anything was wrong.

I walked into a formal conference room wearing sunglasses.  Betsey must
have sensed I was there.  She looked up from a mountain of paperwork,
and she nodded solemnly.  I could tell she'd spent a good part of the
night thinking about Walsh.  So had I. I took one of the empty seats,
just as a lawyer from the Justice Department was beginning to address
the group.  He looked to be in his fifties, rigid and solemn, nearly
without affect.  He wore a shiny, charcoal-gray suit that had narrow
lapels and looked at least twenty years old.

"An arrangement has been made with Brian Macdougall," he announced to
the assembled group.

I looked over at Betsey, and she shook her head, rolled her eyes.  She
already knew.

I couldn't believe it.  I listened closely to every word out of the
Justice lawyer's mouth.

"You are not to speak about anything discussed in this room.  We're
releasing nothing to the press.  Detective Macdougall has agreed to
talk to investigators about the overall plan, and the execution of it
in the Metro Hartford kidnapping.  He has valuable information that
could lead to the capture of an extremely important UN SUB the
so-called Mastermind."

I was completely shell-shocked, undermined, and I felt totally fucked
with.  Goddamn Justice had made the deal over the weekend, and I would
have bet anything that Macdougall got exactly what he had asked for. It
made me physically sick, but that was the way Justice had been working
ever since I became a cop.

Brian Macdougall had known exactly what kind of deal he could get from
them.  Now the only relevant question was, could he give us the
Mastermind?  How much did he know?  Did he know a goddamn thing?

I would find out soon.  I got to interview star-witness Detective
Macdougall later that morning at the Metropolitan Correctional Center.
Detective Harry Weiss was there for the NYPD.  Betsey Cavalierre would
represent the FBI during the session.

Macdougall had two lawyers present.  Neither of them wore
twenty-year-old suits.  They looked slick, very expensive, smart.  The
detective glanced up as we entered a small booking room where the
meeting was to be held," This stinks, right?  "he said.T happen to
agree. But that's the system."

Macdougall the Philosopher sat down between his lawyers and the session
began.

Betsey leaned into me.  She whispered," This ought to be good.  Now we
get to see what Justice bought."

Chapter Ninety-Two

The meeting started out very badly.  Detective Weiss from NYPD Internal
Affairs took it upon himself to speak for the rest of us.  Weiss found
it necessary to start at the beginning and methodically go over
Macdougall's previous statement sentence by sentence.

It was excruciating.  I badly wanted to interrupt him, but I didn't.
Every time Weiss asked another question or launched into a senseless
diatribe criticizing Macdougall, I nudged Betsey's foot under the
table.  To punctuate a couple of embarrassing exchanges she kicked me
in the shins.

Macdougall finally had enough of it too.  "You fucking suck!  "he blew
up at Weiss.  "You people are a joke.  It's about your gut, Weiss, not
covering your fat ass.  You're wasting my time.  Let somebody else ask
the questions."

He glared at Weiss, who still seemed not to get it.

"You're asking all the wrong fucking questions, asshole."  Macdougall
finally stood up and shouted at the top of his voice," You're godawful
at your job, you suck, you're wasting everybody's time!"

Macdougall then stomped over to a grimy window that was covered by a
heavy metal screen and bars.  His lawyers trailed after him.  He said
something, and they all laughed.  Ho, ho, ho.  What a crack-up Brian
Macdougall was.

The rest of us sat at the conference table and watched them.  Betsey
consoled Weiss, tried to keep up a united front.

"Fuck him, "Weiss said with unusual clarity and brevity," I can ask him
anything I want to.  We bought that son of a bitch."

Betsey nodded at Weiss.  "You're right, Harry.  He's arrogant and he's
wrong.  Typical detective, "she said," Maybe he would respond to
Detective Cross.  He doesn't seem to like IAD."

Weiss shook his head at first, but then he relented.  "Fine, whatever
it takes.  Whatever works with this asshole.  I'm a team player."

"We're all team players," she said and lightly patted Weiss's arm.  She
was good.  "Thanks for being open to the suggestion."

Macdougall came back to the table, and he seemed calmer.  He even
apologized to Weiss.  "I'm sorry.  Nerves are a little frayed, you
know."

I waited a couple of seconds for his apology to be accepted by Weiss,
but the IAD man never said a word.  I finally began.  "Detective
Macdougall, why don't you tell us what you have that's important.  You
know what you have to tell.  You also know what we want to hear."

Macdougall looked at both of his lawyers.  He finally smiled.

Chapter Ninety-Three

"All right, let's try that approach.  Simple questions and simple
answers.  I met with the so-called Mastermind three times.  Always down
in Washington.  Each time I saw him, he gave us what he called'
traveling expenses," That was fifty grand a trip, which made it well
worth our while, and also caught our attention, piqued our interest.

"He was very, very buttoned-up.  Thought everything through.  Knew all
the angles.  Knew what he was talking about.  And he told us right off
that our cut of the action would be fifteen million dollars.  He was
very credible when he talked about Metro Hartford  He had a concept and
a plan that was extremely detailed.  We felt it was workable, and it
was."

"How did he know about you?"  I asked.  "How did he contact you?"
Macdougall liked the question, or made it seem as if he did.  "There's
a lawyer we use sometimes.  "He looked at the lawyers on either side of
him.  "Not these two gentlemen.  He contacted our other lawyer.  We
don't know exactly how he knew about us, but he knew what we did, how
we worked.  That's useful information, Detective Weiss.  Make yourself
a note.  Who would know about us?  Somebody in law enforcement?  A cop?
One of ours, Detective Weiss?  An agent with the FBI?  A cop from DC?
Maybe somebody in this room?  It could be anybody."

Weiss couldn't control himself.  His face was red.  The collar of his
button-down white shirt looked a couple of sizes too small.  "But you
already know who it is, Macdougall?  Isn't that right?"

Macdougall looked at Betsey and me.  He shook his head.  He couldn't
believe Weiss either.  "I'm coming to that, to what I know, and what I
don't know.  Don't underestimate the information that he knew about us.
He knew about Detective Cross.  And about Agent Cavalierre.  He knew
everything.  That's important."

"I agree with you," I said.  "Go on, please."

"All right.  Before we agreed to the second meeting, we were doing our
best to find out who the hell this so-called Mastermind was.  We even
talked to the FBI about him.  We made whatever contacts we could make.
We found out nothing.  He left no trail.

"So we get to meet number two.  Bobby Shaw tries to follow him after he
leaves the hotel.  Shaw loses him."

"Which makes you think he might be some kind of cop?"  I asked.

Macdougall shrugged.  "It definitely crosses our minds.  Meeting number
three is about whether we are in or out.  Half of thirty million
dollars we already know we're in.  He knows we're in.  We try to
negotiate a better cut.  He laughs, says absolutely not.  We agree to
his terms.  It's his way or we're out.

"He leaves the hotel after the meet.  We've got two men following him
this time.  He's tall, heavy, dark beard but we think it's probably a
disguise.  Our two guys almost lose him again.

"But they don't lose him.  They're very lucky.  They see him go into
the Hazelwood Veterans Hospital in DC.  He doesn't come out again.  We
don't know what he looks like, but the Mastermind went in there and he
stayed.  He didn't come out."

Macdougall stopped talking.  He let his eyes go slowly down the line
from Weiss to Betsey to me.

"He's a mental patient, guys and girl.  He's at Hazelwood Veterans
Hospital in Washington.  He's on the mental-health ward.  You just have
to find him in there."

Chapter Ninety-Four

FBI agents were immediately dispatched to Hazelwood Veterans Hospital.
Files on every current patient, and also the staff, were being pulled
and would be evaluated.  The Veterans Administration was blocking
access to the patients themselves, but that wouldn't last very long.

I spent the rest of a very long day crosschecking copies of files on
employees and customers of Metro Hartford against patient records as
they became available from Hazelwood.  Thank God for computers.  Even
if the Mastermind was at the hospital, no one knew exactly what he
looked like.  His half of the thirty million dollars was still missing.
But we were closer to him than we'd ever been.  We had recovered nearly
all the money from the New York detectives.  Only a couple hundred
thousand was still missing.  All the detectives were trying to
playLet's make a deal."

That night around nine-thirty, Betsey and I had dinner in New York at a
restaurant called Ecco.  She wore a yellow smock, gold earrings and
bracelets.  It looked good in contrast with her black hair and the tan
she still had.  I think she knew that she looked good too.  Very, very
feminine.

"Is this, like, a date?"  she asked once we were seated at a table in
the cozy, but noisy, Manhattan restaurant.

I smiled.  "I would say this might qualify as a date, especially if we
don't talk about work too much."

"You have my word on it.  Not even if the Mastermind walks in here and
sits down at our table."

'I'm sorry about Jim Walsh," I told her.  We hadn't gotten a chance to
talk about it much.

"I know you are, Alex.  Me too.  He was a really good guy."

"Did it surprise you?  That he killed himself?"

She put her hand on top of mine.  ,

"It did totally.  Not tonight.  Okay?"

For the first time, she opened up and told me a little about herself.
She had gone to John Carroll High School in DC and been brought up
Catholic.  She said that her background was 'strict, strict, and more
strict.  Lots of discipline."  Her mother was a homemaker until she
died when Betsey was sixteen.  Her father had been a sergeant in the
army, then a fireman.

"I used to go out with a girl from John Carroll,"I told her.  "Cute
little uniform."

"Recently?"  she asked.  Her brown eyes twinkled.  She was funny.  She
said the sense of humor came from her old neighborhood in DC, and also
the atmosphere in her parents' house.  "If you were a boy in our
neighborhood, you had to be funny or you got into lots of fights.  My
father wanted a boy, but got me instead.  He was a tough guy, but
funny, always had a joke.  Daddy died of a heart attack on the job.  I
think that's why I work out every day like such a possessed little
maniac."

I told her that my mother and father had both died before I was ten and
that my grandmother raised me.  "I work out a lot too," I said.

"You went to Georgetown, then Johns Hopkins, right?"  she asked.

I rolled my eyes, but I was laughing.  "You prepared for the meeting.
Yes, I have a doctorate in psychology from Hopkins.  I'm overqualified
for my job."

She laughed," I went to Georgetown.  I was way behind you, though."

"Four years.  Only four short years, Agent Cavalierre.  You were a very
good lacrosse player there."

She crinkled up her nose and mouth.  "Oohhh.  Somebody else has been
prepping for tonight."

I laughed," No, no.  I actually saw you play once."

"You remember?"  she asked with mild astonishment.

"I remember you.  You glided when you ran.  I didn't put it all
together at first, but I remember it now."

Betsey asked about my Johns Hopkins training in psych, then my three
years in private practice.  "But you like being a homicide detective
better?"  she asked.

"I do.  I love the action."

She admitted that she did too.

We talked a little about people who had been important in our lives.

I told her about Maria, my wife who'd been killed.  I showed off
pictures of Damon and Jannie and little Alex from my wallet.

I noticed that her voice got softer.  "I've never been married.  I have
five younger sisters, all married, with kids.  I love their kids.  They
call me Auntie Cop."

"Can I ask a personal question?"

She nodded.  "Fire away.  I can take the heat."

"You ever been close to settling down?"  I asked.  "Auntie Cop?"

"Is the question personal or professional, Doctor?"  I already had the
sense that she was incredibly guarded.  Her humor was probably her best
defense.

"The question is just friendly," I told her.

"I know it is.  I can tell, Alex.  I've had some good friends in the
past -men, a couple of boys.  Whenever it got too serious, I always got
out of harm's way.  Oops.  There's a slip."

"Just the truth," I smiled," slipping out ever so slowly."

She leaned in close.  She kissed my forehead, then she kissed me gently
on the lips.  The kisses were sweet and totally irresistible.

"I like being with you," she said.  "I like talking to you an awful
lot.  Are we about ready to leave?"

She and I returned to the hotel together.  I walked her to her room. We
kissed outside the door and I liked it even more than the first time in
Hartford.  Slow and easy wins the race.

"You're still not ready," she said matter-of-factly.

"You're right... I'm not ready."

"But you're close," she smiled, then entered her hotel room and shut the
door.  "Don't know what you're missing," she called from inside.

I smiled all the way back to my hotel room.  I think I did know what I
was missing.

Chapter Ninety-Five

Here we go!  "John Sampson said and clapped his hands together.

"Bad boys, bad boys, where you gonna hide?"

At six a.m. on Wednesday morning, Sampson and I climbed out of my old
Porsche in the staff parking lot of the Hazelwood Veterans Hospital on
North Capitol Street in DC.  The large, sprawling hospital was situated
a way south of Walter Reed Army Medical Center, just north of the
Soldiers' and Airmen's Home.

Home of the Mastermind?  I wondered.  Could it be?  According to Brian
Macdougall it could and he had a lot riding on it.

John and I were dressed in sports shirts, baggy khaki trousers,
high-topped sneakers.  We were going to work for a day or two at the
hospital.  So far, the FBI hadn't been able to identify the Mastermind
among the patients or staff members.

The grounds of Hazelwood were surrounded by high field stone walls
covered with ivy.  The landscaping was sparse: A few deciduous and
evergreen shrubs and trees, artificial berms that were evocative of
wartime bunkers.

"That's the main hospital," I said and pointed to a nearby building
that was painted pale yellow, and rose six stories above us.  There
were a half-dozen smaller, bunkerlike buildings on the grounds.

"I've been here before," Sampson said.  His eyes narrowed.  "Knew a
couple of guys from Vietnam who wound up at Hazelwood.  They didn't
heap high praise on the institution.  Place always makes me think of
Titicut Follies.  You remember that scene where a patient is refusing
to eat?  So they force a hose up his nose?"

I looked at Sampson and shook my head.  "You really don't like
Hazelwood."

"Don't like the system of dispensing medical care to veterans.  Don't
like what happens to men and women who get hurt in foreign wars.

The people who work here are mostly all right, though.  They probably
don't even use nose hoses anymore."  "We might need to," I told him,
'if we find our guy."  "We find the Mastermind, sugar, we'll definitely
use nose hoses."

Chapter Ninety-Six

We climbed steep stone stairs, then entered the veterans hospital's
administration building.  We were shown the way to the inner office of
Colonel Daniel Schofield, the director of the unit.

Colonel Schofield was there to meet us outside a small, private room.
Two other men and a petite blonde woman were already inside.  "Let's go
right in," Schofield said.  He appeared anxious, and possibly upset.
What a surprise.

He made stiff, very formal introductions around the room, starting with
Sampson and me, then going on to his staff.  None of them looked happy
to see us.

"This is Ms Kathleen McGuigan.  She's the head nurse on Four and Five,
where you and Mr.  Sampson will be working.  This is Dr.  Padriac
Cioffi.  Dr.  Cioffi is the psychiatrist in charge of the mental-health
units.  And Dr.  Marcuse, one of the five excellent therapists who work
at the hospital."

Dr.  Marcuse nodded benignly in our direction.  He seemed a pleasant
enough man, but Nurse McGuigan and Dr.  Cioffi sat there stone-faced.

"I've explained the very delicate situation to Ms McGuigan, Dr. Cioffi,
and Dr.  Marcuse.  To be candid with you, nobody is completely
comfortable with this, but we understand that we don't have a choice,
," ," this suspected killer is hiding out here, our concern is for
everyone's safety.  He must be caught of course.  No one disagrees with
that."

"He was here," I said," at least for a while.  He might be here now."

"I don't believe he's here."  Dr.  Cioffi spoke up.  "I'm sorry.  I
just don't see it.  I know all of our patients and, believe me, none of
them is a mastermind.  Not even close.  The men and women here are
deeply, deeply disturbed."

"It could also be a staff member," I told him, then watched his
reaction.  ,"

"My opinion remains unchanged, Detective."

I needed their cooperation, so I figured it was a good idea to try to
make friends, if I could.  "Detective Sampson and I will be in and out
of here as quickly as is humanly possible," I said.  "We do have reason
to believe that the killer is, or at least was, a patient at the
hospital.  I don't know if this makes it better or worse, but I'm a
psychologist.  I went to Hopkins.  I worked as a psych aide at McLean
Hospital and also the Institute for Living.  I think I'll fit in on the
wards."

Sampson spoke up," Oh yes, I was once a porter at Union Station.  I'll
fit in all right too.  Carry that load."

The executive staff didn't laugh and didn't say a word.  Nurse McGuigan
and Dr.  Cioffi glared at Sampson, who'd had the nerve to make light of
the seriousness of the situation, heaven forbid.

I figured I had to take a completely different tack if I was going to
get anywhere with them.  "Is Anectine available at the hospital?"I
asked the group.

Dr.  Cioffi shrugged," Of course.  But why do you want to know about
that drug?"

"Anectine was used to murder people who worked with the killer.  He
knows a lot about poisons, and he seems to enjoy watching people die.
One of the hold-up gangs is still missing, and we're afraid they're
dead.  Detective Sampson and I will need to look at the nursing reports
and any case-conference reports for all patients.  Then I'll check the
daily charts from our most promising leads.  We'll work the
seven-to-three-thirty shift today."

Colonel Schofield nodded politely.  "I expect everyone's full
cooperation with these detectives.  There could be a killer inside the
hospital.  It is possible, however unlikely."

At seven o'clock, Sampson and I went on duty at Hazelwood.  I was a
mental-health counselor and he was a porter.  And the Mastermind?  Who
was he?

Chapter Ninety-Seven

That morning, somewhere on the fifth floor of Hazelwood, the Mastermind
was incredibly pissed off at his doctor.  The useless, worthless quack
had taken away his privileges to go off the hospital grounds.  The
shrink wanted to know why he seemed different lately?  What was going
on?  What was he holding back, holding inside?

He stewed in his pitiful little room on the fifth floor.  He got
angrier and angrier.  Who was he really furious at?  Besides the
shrink?  He thought about it, then he sat down and wrote some hate
mail.

Mr.  Patrick Lee Owner

Dear Sir

I don't fucking understand you.  I signed our lease with amendments we
agreed upon in good faith.  I've held up my end of the deal and you
have not!  You conduct yourself as if you are purposely defying our
lease.

Let me remind you, Mr.  Lee, that while you may be the owner of this
apartment, once you take my money, it is my home.

This letter will show, for the record, the illegal actions you have
taken against me.

You must cease and desist posting eviction notices on my door.  I have
paid the rent every month and on time!

You must stop calling me, rambling on in your loud Cantonese gibberish,
and bothering me.

Stop harassing me!

I ask you one last time.

Stop harassing me!

Immediately.  ,"

Or I will harass you!!!

He stopped writing.  Then he thought long and hard about the letter
he'd just written.  He was losing it, wasn't he?  He was going to
blow.

He shut down his PC and went out into the hallway of the ward.  He put
on his usual passive and slightly out-of-it face.  The nuts were out in
all of their glory.  Nuts in ratty bathrobes, nuts in squeaky
wheel-chairs, nuts in the nude.

Sometimes, more often than not, he found it impossible to believe that
he was here.  Of course, that was the point, wasn't it?  No one would
guess that he was the Mastermind.  No one would ever find him here.  He
was perfectly safe.

And then he saw Detective Alex Cross.

Chapter Ninety-Eight

When I arrived on Five, I felt I could almost hear an audible
stretching of the thin red line between the sane and the mad.

The ward pretty much had the standard institutional look: Faded mauve
and gray everything; occasional gashes in the walls; nurses carrying
trays of little cups; strung-out men in drawstring hospital pants and
stained robes.  I had seen it all before, except for one thing.  The
mental-health workers carried whistles to sound an alarm if they needed
help.  That probably meant staff members had been hurt here.

The fourth and fifth floors comprised the ward for psychiatric
patients.  There were thirty-one veterans on Five, the ages ranging
from twenty-three to seventy-five.  The patients on Five were
considered dangerous, either to others or to themselves.

I started my search on Five.  Two of the patients on the floor were
tall and burly.  They somewhat matched the description of the man who'd
been followed by detectives Crews and O'Malley.  One of them, Cletus
Anderson, had a salt-and-pepper beard and had been involved in police
work in Denver and Salt Lake City after his discharge from the army.

I found Anderson loitering in the day room on the first morning.  It
was past ten o'clock, but he was still wearing pajamas and a soiled
robe.  He was watching ESPN and he didn't strike me as a mastermind
criminal.

The decor in the day room consisted of about a dozen brown vinyl
chairs, a lopsided card table, and a TV mounted on one wall.  The air
was heavy with cigarette smoke.  Anderson was smoking.  I sat down in
front of the TV, nodded hello.

He turned to me and blew an imperfect smoke ring.  "You're new, right?
Play pool?"  he asked.

"I'll give it a try."

"Give it a try," he said and smiled as if I'd made a joke.  "Got keys
to the pool room?"

He stood up without waiting for an answer to his question.  Or maybe
he'd forgotten that he'd asked it.  I knew from the nursing charts that
he had a violent temper, but that he was on a truckload of Valium now.
Good thing.  Anderson was six foot six and weighed over two hundred
seventy pounds.

The pool room was surprisingly cheery with two large windows that
looked out on to a walled exercise yard.  The yard was bordered with
red maples and elms, and birds twittered away in the trees.

I was in there alone with Clete Anderson.  Could this very large man be
the Mastermind?  I couldn't tell yet.  Maybe if he brained me with a
pool ball or cue stick.

Anderson and I played a game of eight ball.  He wasn't very good.  I
let him stay in the game by blowing a couple of chip shots, but he
didn't seem to notice.  His blue-gray eyes were nearly glazed over.

"Like to wring those fucking blue jays necks," he muttered angrily
after missing a bank shot that wasn't even close to being his best
opportunity on the table.

"What did the blue jays do wrong?"  I asked him.

"They're out there.  I'm in here," he said and stared at me," Don't try
to shrink-wrap me, okay?  Mr.  Big Shit Mental Health Worker.  Play
your shot."

I sank a striped ball in the corner, then I missed another long shot I
could have made.  Anderson took the cue from me and he stood over his
next shot for a long time.  Too long, I was thinking.  He straightened
up suddenly.  All six foot six of him.  He glared at me as if something
were wrong.  His body was getting rigid; he was tensing his large
arms.

"Did you just say something to me, Mr.  Mental Health?"he asked.  His
hands were large and held the pool cue tightly, wringing its neck.  He
had a lot of fat on him, but the fat was hard like that on football
linemen and some professional wrestlers.

"Nope.  Not a peep."

"That s'posed to be funny?  Little play on the peeping blue jays which
you know I fucking hate?"

I shook my head.  "I didn't mean anything by it."

Anderson stepped back from the pool table with the cue stick clasped
tightly in both hands.  "I could have sworn I heard you call me a pussy
under your breath.  Little puss?  Wuss?  Something derogatory like
that?"

?44

I made eye contact with him.  "I think our pool game's over now, Mr.
Anderson.  Please put the stick down."

"You think you can make me put down this cue stick?  Probably do, if
you think I'm a puss."

I held my mental-health-worker whistle to my mouth," I'm new here and I
need the work.  I don't want any trouble."

"Well then, you came to the wrong goddamn hellhole, man," he said
"You're the fucking priss.  Whistle-blower."

Anderson tossed the pool cue on to the table and he stalked toward the
door.  He bumped my shoulder on the way.

"Watch your mouth, nigger," he said, spitting as he spoke the words.

I didn't give Anderson anymore ground.  I grabbed him, spun him around,
surprised the hell out of him.  I let him feel the strength in my arms
and shoulders.  I stared him down.  I wanted to see what happened if he
was provoked.

"You watch your mouth," I said in the softest whisper.  "You be very,
very careful around me."

I released my grip on Clete Anderson and he spun away.  I watched the
large man leave the pool room and I kind of hoped he was the
Mastermind.

Chapter Ninety-Nine

The worst possibility I could imagine so far was that the Mastermind
might disappear and never be heard from again.  Hunting for the
Mastermind had become more like Waiting for the Mastermind or maybe
even Praying for the Mastermind to do something that would lead us to
him.

Shifts at the veterans hospital began with a thirty-minute
nursing-report-cum-coffee-klatch.  During the meeting each patient was
talked about briefly, and privilege changes noted.  The report buzz
words were affect, "compliance," of course, TTSD."  At least half the
men on the wards suffered from Post Traumatic Stress Disorder.

The shift report ended, and my day began.  The psychiatric aide's main
duty is to interact with patients.  I was doing that, and it reminded
me of why I'd gone into psychology in the first place.

Actually, a lot of my past life was rushing back, especially my
feelings and understanding for the terrible power of trauma.  So many
of these men suffered from it.  For them, the world no longer seemed
safe or manageable.  People around them didn't seem trustworthy or
dependable.  Self-doubt and guilt were always present.  Faith and
spirituality were nonexistent.  Why had the Mastermind chosen this
place to hide?

During the eight-hour shift I had a number of specific duties: Sharps
check at seven (I had to count all the silverware in the kitchen; if
anything was missing, which was rare, rooms would be searched);
one-on-one specials at eight with a patient named Copeland who was
considered extremely suicidal; fifteen-minute checks starting at nine
(during which I was responsible for knowing the whereabouts of all the
patients.  Every fifteen minutes, I put a check by their names on a
blackboard in the hallway outside the nurses' station); baskets
(somebody has to empty the garbage).

Each time I went to the blackboard I gave the most likely suspects a
slightly bolder chalk mark.  At the end of my first hour on checks, I
found that I had seven candidates on my hot list.

A patient named James Gallagher was on the list simply because he
roughly fit the physical description of the Mastermind.  He was tall
enough, thick-chested, and seemed reasonably alert and bright.  That
alone made him a suspect.

Frederic Szabo had full town privileges, but he was a timid soul and I
doubted that he was a killer.  Since Vietnam he'd been drifting around
the country and had never held a job for more than a few weeks.
Occasionally, he spit at hospital staff, but that was the worst offense
he seemed capable of.

Stephen Bowen had full town privileges and had once been a promising
infantry captain in Vietnam.  He suffered from PTSD and had been in and
out of veterans hospitals since 1971.  He took pride in saying that
he'd never held a 'real job' since he left the military.

David Hale had been a policeman in Maryland for two years, before he
began having paranoid thoughts that every Oriental person he saw on the
streets was put there to kill him.

Michael Fescoe had worked for two banks in Washington, but he seemed
too spaced-out to balance his own checkbook.  Maybe he was faking PTSD,
but his therapist at the hospital didn't think so.

Clete Anderson fit the Mastermind's general physical description.  I
didn't like him.  And he was violent.  But Anderson hadn't done a thing
to make me suspect he could actually be the Mastermind.  Quite the
contrary.

Just before shift change, Betsey Cavalierre reached me on the ward.  I
took the call in the small staff room at the rear of the nurses'
station.  "Betsey?  What's up?"

"Alex, something very strange has happened," she said, and sounded
rattled.  I asked her what, and her answer gave me a nasty shock.

"Mike Doud is missing.  He didn't come into work this morning.  We
called his wife, but she said he left at the usual time."

"What is the Bureau doing about it?"  I asked.

"We don't think he was in an automobile accident.  It's too soon to put
out an APB.  Except this isn't like Doud.  He's a really straight guy,
family man, totally dependable.  First Walsh," she said.  "Now this.
What the hell is going on, Alex?  It's him, isn't it?

Chapter One Hundred

Was he hunting us?  Agent James Walsh dead, now Doud missing.  There
was no way to tell if the events were connected, but we had to assume
they were.  It's him, isn't it?

I had set up an interview with Dr.  Cioffi at the hospital's
administration building, so I kept the appointment.  I'd done some
background work on Cioffi and a few of the other psychiatrists at
Hazelwood.  Cioffi was an army veteran himself; he'd done two tours in
Vietnam, then he'd worked in seven veterans' hospitals before this one.
Could he be the Mastermind?  He certainly had the background in
abnormal psychology.  But then again, so did I. When I was shown into
his office, Dr.  Cioffi was writing at a pine wood partner's table. 
His back was to the window.  He sat in a cane-and-wood chair covered
with a yellow striped fabric that matched the drapes.

I couldn't see him very well, but I knew he could see me.  Oh, the
games we play even us doctors of the mind.

Eventually, he looked up, pretending to be surprised that I was there.
"Detective Cross, I'm sorry.  I guess the time got away from me."

He shot his cuffs, then rose from his chair and indicated a general
sitting area against the far "wall.  "Dr.  Marcuse and I were talking
about you the other night.  We realized we were pretty tough the day
that you and the other detective arrived.  I guess we found the idea of
the police wandering around the wards a little troubling.  Anyway, I've
heard rumors that you're an excellent mental-health counselor."

I refused to rise to the bait.  He was a doctor; I was a mental-health
counselor.  I told Cioffi about the list of suspects I had compiled. He
took the list from me.  Quickly looked over the names.

"I know all of these patients, of course.  I'm sure that some are angry
enough to be violent.  Anderson and Hale have actually committed

murders in the past.  It's still hard to imagine any of these men
organizing a series of daring robberies.  And then, of course, why
would they still be here if they had all that money?"  He laughed.  "I
certainly wouldn't be.  "Is that so, Dr.  Cioffi?  I had to wonder.

Next, I spent nearly an hour with Dr.  Marcuse, who had a smaller
office right next to Cioffi's.  I enjoyed his company and the time flew
by.  Marcuse was energetic, bright, and trying to be cooperative with
the investigation.  Or so he made it seem.

"How did you wind up here at Hazelwood?"  I eventually asked him.

"Good question, complicated answer.  My father was an army pilot.  Lost
both legs in the Second World War.  I spent time around veterans
hospitals from the time I was seven.  Hated them with a passion, and
with good reason.  I guess I wanted to make them better places than
what my father knew."

"You succeeding?"  I asked.

"I've been here less than eight months.  I took over from Dr.  Francis,
who transferred to another vets hospital in Florida.  The money just
isn't available for these places.  It's a national disgrace and nobody
seems to care.  Sixty Minutes and Dateline should do a story every week
on a veterans hospital until somebody does something about them.  Alex,
I don't know what to tell you about your killer."

"You don't believe he's here, do you?"  I asked.

Marcuse shook his head.  "If he is, he really is a Mastermind.  If he's
here, he's got everybody fooled."

Chapter One Hundred and One

I see you, Dr.  Cross.  I see you, but you don't have a due who I am. I
could walk up and touch you.

I'm a lot smarter than you and also a lot smarter than you think I am.
It's a simple fact.  It's also verifiable.  There have been batteries
of intelligence tests.  Lots and lots of the finest psychological
tests.  Have you seen my test scores?  Were you impressed?

I was sitting exactly one chair away from you in the recreation room
the other morning.  I studied your face.  My eyes rolled over your
well-exercised body.  I was thinking that maybe I was wrong and that
you weren't really Alex Cross.  We were so close I could have jumped up
and grabbed you by the throat.  Would that have surprised you?

I'll admit, your being here certainly surprised me.  I'd seen your
picture you're well known and then there you were.  You made all of my
paranoid dreams and fantasies come true.

Why are you here, Dr.  Cross?  Why, exactly?  How the hell could you
have found me?  Are you that good?

That's the question I ask myself over and over, the litany playing
inside my head.

Why is Alex Cross here?  How good is he?

I'm going to work on a surprise for you now.  I'm making a special plan
in your honor.

I'm watching you walk away up the hallway, careful not to jangle your
keys, and as I'm watching, I'm making a new plan.

You're a part of it now.

Be extremely careful, Dr.  Cross.

You're much more vulnerable than you think.  You have no idea.

You know what?  I am going to walk up and touch you.

Gotcha.

Chapter One Hundred and Two

The hospital seems like a dead end, Betsey.  I've looked at everybody -
doctors, nurses, patients. I don't know that Sampson or I should go back to Hazelwood after this week. Maybe we got suckered in there by Brian Macdougall.  Maybe the Mastermind is playing with us.  Do we know anything more about Walsh or Doud?"

She shook her head.  I could see the hurt and disappointment in her
eyes.  "Doud is still missing.  There's nothing.  He's disappeared off
the face of the earth."

I was sitting in her office and we had our feet propped up on her desk.
We were drinking iced tea from bottles.  Hanging out, commiserating.
Betsey could be a good listener when she wanted, or needed, to be.

Tell me what you know so far," she said.  "Just let me hear it.  I want
it to roll over my brain."

"We haven't been able to find anything to connect any patient or any
staff member at the hospital to Metro Hartford or the bank robberies.
No patient seems capable of the crimes.  Even the doctors there aren't
terribly impressive.  Maybe Marcuse is but I think he's a good guy.  A
half-dozen of your agents have picked apart everything at Hazelwood.
Nothing, Betsey.  I'll look over the files again this weekend."

"But you think we've lost him?"

"It's the same old thing no suspects.  The Mastermind seems to
disappear off the face of the earth when he wants to."

She rubbed her eyes with her fists, then she looked at me again.  "The
Justice Department is heavily invested in Brian Macdougall's story.
They have to keep looking at Hazelwood.  Then they'll check every other
veterans hospital in the country.  That means I'll have to keep
looking.  But you think Macdougall and his thugs were wrong?"

"Maybe wrong, maybe tricked.  Or maybe Macdougall made up the whole
story.  Macdougall will probably get what he wanted out of this -Camp
Fed.  As I said, I'll look over the files again.  I'm not giving up."

Betsey continued to look out over the cityscape.  "So you're planning
to work all weekend?  That's a shame.  You look like you need a break,"
she said.

I sipped my tea, and watched her.  "You have something in mind?"

She laughed, and the look on her face was irresistibly coy.  She
whistled into the neck of her iced-tea bottle," I think it's time,
Alex.  We both need some good old-fashioned F-U-N.  What do you say I
pick you up around noon on Saturday?"

I shook my head some, but I was laughing.

"Does that mean yes?"  she asked.

I nodded.  "It means yes.  I think I need a little old-fashioned F-U-N.
I'm sure I do."

Chapter One Hundred and Three

I almost couldn't wait for Saturday afternoon to come.  I kept busy
with the kids grocery-shopping, a stop at the new petting zoo in
Southeast.  I kept the Mastermind out of my thoughts.  Also agents
Walsh and Doud, Hazelwood Veterans Hospital, murder and mayhem.

Betsey finally picked me up at exactly twelve in her blue Saab.  The
car was washed, maybe even polished with Turtle Wax, and it looked
shiny and new and the day seemed full of promise.

I knew that Jannie was watching from her bedroom window so I turned,
made a funny face, and waved.  Jannie waved back, and smiled from ear
to ear.  She and Rosie the cat were up there; both of them tuned into
my ongoing soap opera.

I leaned down into the side window of Betsey's Saab.  She was wearing a
light leather jacket over a white silk blouse.  She could really look
great when she wanted to, and I guess she wanted to today.

"You're always right on time.  Precise.  Just like the Mastermind," I
kidded her.

"MasterprzcA:," she corrected.  "Wouldn't that be a great ending to
this, Alex?  I'm him!  You catch me because I've made one fatal
mistake.  It's that I've become infatuated with you."

"You're infatuated?"  I asked as I slid into the front seat.  "Senior
Agent Cavalierre?"

She laughed, and showed a beautiful smile.  She was pulling out all the
stops.  "Giving up my prized weekend, aren't I?"

"So where are we going?"  I asked.

"You'll see soon enough.  I have a master plan."

'I'm not surprised."

Ten minutes later, she turned the Saab into the circular entrance to
the Four Seasons Hotel on Pennsylvania Avenue.  Overhanging flags
gently rustled in the wind.  The courtyard had a lot of brick covered
with Boston ivy.  Very pretty.

"Is this okay?"  She turned and looked at me.  Her eyes were a little
nervous, a little unsure.

"I think it is,"I said.  "Convenient too.  Perfect planning."

"Why waste quality time on the road?"  Betsey said and smiled
irresistibly.  She was pretty outrageous for an FBI agent, especially a
smart one with lofty ambitions.  I liked her style a lot: She went for
what she wanted.  I wondered if she usually got it.

She had pre-registered and we were taken directly to a room on the
hotel's top floor.  I walked behind her all the way; I watched her
walk.

"You folks need any help from me?"  the youthful, but officious hotel
bellman asked once we were inside the suite.

I handed him a tip," Thanks for showing us to the room.  If you would
just shut the door on your way out.  Gently."

He nodded.  "The room service here is great by the way.  The best in

DC."

"Thank you.  The door," Betsey said and waved and smiled.  "Softly.
Bye-bye."

Chapter One Hundred and Four

Betsey was already slipping off her leather jacket.  Then she was in my
arms by the time the door clicked shut.  We were kissing and moving
against each other, and it seemed like a slow, graceful, irresistible
dance to me.  We were both infatuated, and that's not so bad, I was
thinking.  Good, old-fashioned fun.  Isn't that what she had
promised?

Betsey felt electric, but also very comfortable in my arms.  She was a
study in contrasts.  She was small and light, but also athletic and
strong; she was very smart and serious, but she was funny, ironic,
irreverent.  Oh yeah, and she was sexy as hell.

We moved toward the bed and let ourselves fall on to it.  I don't know
who was leading, following.  It didn't make any difference.  I buried
my face in her white silk blouse.

I looked into her brown eyes.  "You were pretty sure of yourself.
Pre-registering and all."

"It was time," she said, nothing more.

I took off her soft, creamy-white blouse and short black skirt a piece
at a time.  I gently stroked her silky smooth face; then her arms,
legs, the bottoms of her feet.  It must have taken us half an hour to
get undressed.

"You have the most wonderful touch," she whispered.  "Don't stop.
Please don't stop."

"I won't.  I like touching too.  Don't you stop."

"Oh God, this is so good!  Alexl' she screeched, completely out of
character.

I kissed her where I'd touched her with my fingers.  She was so warm to
the touch.  She wore a wonderful perfume, which she told me was Alfred
Sung's Forever.  I kissed her lips, not forever, but for a long, long
time.

We danced some more, held each other, kissed a lot, stroked each
other's bodies.  We had all the time in the world.  God I had missed
being with someone like this.

"Now.  Please?"  one of us whispered finally.

It was definitely time.

I entered Betsey slowly, very slowly.  I kept going as far as I could
inside her.  I was on top, but I held my weight on my forearms.  We
were moving together and it seemed so effortless and right.  She
started to hum, no particular song, just sweetness that made me vibrate
like a tuning fork.

"I like being with you," I said.  "A lot.  Even more than I
expected."

"Oh, me too.  I told you this would be better than chasing after the
Mastermind."

"This is so much better."

"Now!  Please?"

Chapter One Hundred and Five

Betsey and I fell asleep in each other's arms at some point later that
afternoon.

I woke up first and saw it was almost six already.  It didn't matter
what time it was.  Not even what day.  I called home, checked in on
everybody.  They were happy I was out and having F-U-N for a change.

I was.  I watched Betsey sleep in the nude, and I would have been
content to do that for a long time.  I thought about drawing a warm
bath for the two of us.  Should I?  Yes, I should.  Why not?

In the bathroom, I spotted a jar of bright blue bubble bath beads near
her things.  She was way ahead of me, wasn't she?  I wondered if I
liked that, and decided that I did.

The tub was filling up slowly when I heard her speak behind me.  "Oh,
good, I've wanted to have a bubble bath with you."

I looked around at her she still was in the nude.

"You thought about this before, huh?"

"Oh yes.  And often.  What do you think I'm doing during those endless
briefing sessions?"

A few moments later, we were stepping into the rub together.  It felt
incredibly good; the antidote for the hard work, the tension, the
frustration we'd been experiencing over the past weeks.

"I like being with you so much," Betsey whispered as she stared into my
eyes.  "I don't want to leave this rub, or you.  This is heaven."

"They have excellent room service.  The best in DC," I reminded her.
They'll probably come right to tub side if we ask nicely."

"Let's find out," Betsey said.

Chapter One Hundred and Six

It went like that, dreamily, wonderfully, perfectly, through the rest
of Saturday and into Sunday morning.  The only problem the time went
too fast.

The more I was around her and the more we talked, the more I liked her;
and I had liked her before we went to the Four Seasons.  What wasn't
there to like?  Only once Saturday did we talk briefly about the
Mastermind case.  Betsey asked if I thought we were in any danger.  She
wondered if he might be stalking us.  Neither of us had an answer for
that one, but we had both brought our guns.

Around ten Sunday morning, we had breakfast served to us at the pool.
We sat on chaise-longues cushioned with fluffy blue and white towels.
We read the Washington Post and the New York Times.  We got an
occasional curious look, but the Four Seasons is a sophisticated hotel
chain and the people who stay here, especially at the hotel in
Washington, have seen it all and much, much more.  Besides, I'm sure
Betsey and I looked content and happy together.

I should have seen it coming.  I don't know why but suddenly I was
thinking about the person behind the robberies, murders, and
kidnappings: The Mastermind.  I tried to will the thought away.  I
couldn't.  The Dragonslayer was back; the job was back.

I looked at Betsey.  Her eyes were shut and she seemed perfectly
relaxed.  That morning she'd done her nails a bright shade of red.
She'd done her lips the same color.  She didn't look like an FBI agent
anymore.  She was sexy and beautiful and I was loving our time
together.

I hated to bother her.  She'd earned some time off, and she was lying
so peacefully on her chaise-longue.

"Betsey?"

Her lips slowly formed a smile.  She kept her eyes shut tightly.  She
wriggled her body slightly to get a better position on the
chaise-longue.

"Yes.  I'd love to go back to the room with you.  I'd even give up this
toasry feeling on my neck and back for it.  We can leave our towels on
the chairs.  Maybe they'll still be here when we get back."

I smiled, then I lightly massaged her back.  "I hate to do this,
Betsey.  Can we talk about the case?  About him?"

She opened her eyes.  They had become narrowed and focused.  Just like
that, Betsey was all business.  I was amazed at the transformation.  If
anything, she was worse than I was.  "What about him?"  she asked.
"What are you thinking?"

I moved over to the edge of her seat.  "We've spent the last weeks
digging about Metro Hartford  Then questioning Macdougall.  During all
that time, we've ignored the banks he hit earlier.  Betsey, I want to
look through all the old files again.  Even the personnel files."

She was a little puzzled.  "Okay.  I guess.  Sure.  You lost me,
though.  What are you thinking, Alex?  What would we be looking for?"

"Four employees were killed at the First Union Bank.  There was no
rhyme or reason for it.  We always assumed he was making an example of
them.  Why all these people?  It doesn't track for me."

She shut her eyes again.  I could see the wheels turning fast; I could
almost hear the gears shift.  "He wanted revenge against the banks, and
he wanted his fifteen million in cash."

"Sounds like him, doesn't it?  He's thorough and efficient.  Doesn't
miss a trick.  He'd want it all."

Betsey opened her eyes again.  She stared at me.  Pursed her shiny red
lips.  "There's just one thing, though.  It's important."

I lightly kissed her lips.  "What's that?"  I asked.

"I still want to go back to the room with you.  Then we can go through
all the dusty, musty files on the banks."

I laughed.  "That sounds like a very wise plan.  Especially the first
part."

Chapter One Hundred and Seven

We were back at the FBI field office by three that afternoon.  Betsey
had called ahead and the First Union files were waiting in her office.
We dug into the files.  And dug, and dug.  We ordered sandwiches and
iced tea from the deli on the corner.

Twice.

"Why are the two of us so driven to do this?"  Betsey finally asked,
looking over at me.

"He probably killed Walsh, and maybe Mike Doud.  He's a really sick
puppy and he's out there somewhere and that's scary as hell."

She nodded solemnly.  "We're sick puppies and look where it got us.
Pass me that stack, will you?  God, it was so nice and restful and
sunny at the Four Seasons."

Around eleven o'clock I held up a small black-and-white photo.  I was
deep into the personnel files from First Union.

"Betsey?"  I called out.

"Mmmm?"  She was deep into her own stack of files.

"This guy was a security executive at the bank.  Betsey, he's a patient
on Five at Hazelwood.  I know who he is.  I've talked to him this week.
There's no record at the hospital that he ever worked at First Union.
This is our guy.  He has to be.  "I passed her the picture.

We quickly agreed that Sampson and I would return to Hazelwood in the
morning.  In the meantime, Betsey tried to gather all the information
she could on a patient named Frederic Szabo.  Goddamn, nerdy Frederic
Szabo!

It was possible that Szabo wasn't connected, but it didn't seem likely.
Szabo had been the head of security at First Union Bank.  He was a
tall, bearded patient at Hazelwood.  He fit Brian Macdougall's
description.  His psychiatric profile included recurring paranoid
fantasies against

Fortune 500 companies.  He'd just seemed too withdrawn and helpless to
be the Mastermind.

The most telling evidence was that the hospital's records didn't show
that he'd worked at First Union.  Supposedly, Szabo had been an
out-of-work drifter since Vietnam.  Of course, we now knew that he'd
been lying about those years.

According to his psychiatric profile, Szabo had a paranoid personality
disorder.  He had a severe distrust of people, especially business
people, and believed that they were exploiting and trying to deceive
him.  He was sure that if he confided in someone, the information would
be used against him.  During a two-year marriage from '70 through '71,
Szabo had been pathologically hypersensitive and jealous of his wife.
When the marriage broke up, he supposedly hit the road.  He eventually
showed up at Hazelwood, seeking help three years before the robberies
and a year after he'd been let go at First Union.  During his frequent
stays at Hazelwood he was always cold and aloof.  He cut himself off
from everyone at the hospital, both patients and staff.  He never made
a friend, but he basically seemed harmless to others; and he had
grounds and town privileges most of the time.

After I read the profile again, it struck me that Szabo's job at the
bank had been a perfect fit for his disorder.  Like a lot of
functioning paranoids, Szabo had sought out work where he could operate
in a punitive and moralistic style that would be socially acceptable.
As head of security at the bank, he could focus on his need to prevent
attacks from anyone at any time.  By protecting the perimeters of the
bank, he was unconsciously protecting himself.

The irony was that, by setting up a series of successful bank
robberies, he had proven, at least symbolically, that there was no way
to protect himself from attack by others.  Maybe that was his point.

His mistrustfulness made treatment at the hospital difficult, if not
impossible.  He had been in and out of Hazelwood four times in the past
eighteen months.  Had the veterans hospital been a front for his other
activities?  Had he chosen Hazelwood as his hideout?

And, most puzzling of all, why was he still there?

Chapter One Hundred and Eight

On Monday morning I went to work at Hazelwood again.  I was outfitted
in an overhanging white shirt and corduroy pants that were loose enough
to hide the holster strapped on to my leg.  An FBI agent named Jack
Waterhouse had been added to the staff as an aide.  Sampson continued
on as a porter, but he was working only on Five now.

Frederic Szabo proceeded to do nothing to attract suspicion or reveal
himself in any way.  For three days straight, he never left the ward.
He slept a lot in his room.  He occasionally worked on an old Apple
laptop.

What the hell was he doing?  Did he know we were watching him?

Late on Wednesday after the work shift, I met up with Betsey inside the
hospital's administration building.  She had on a navy-blue suit and
blue sling back heels, and she was all business again.  She almost
seemed like another person at times, preoccupied and distant.

She was clearly as frustrated as I was," He worked on his master plan
for at least three years, right?  Presumably, he has fifteen million
dollars stashed somewhere.  He's killed a lot of people to get it.  Now
he's sitting on his ass at Hazelwood?  Give me a break!"

I told her what I thought about Szabo.  "He's extremely paranoid.  He's
psychopathic.  He may even know we're here.  Maybe we should pull back
from the hospital.  Do surveillance from the outside.  He has his full
grounds and town privileges back from Dr.  Cioffi.  Szabo can come and
go as he likes."

While I talked, Betsey kept pulling at the lapels of her blazer.  I was
afraid she might start pulling out her hair next.

"But he doesn't go anywherel He's a fifty-year-old slacker!  He's a
total loser!"

"Betsey, I know.  I've been watching Szabo sleep and play games on the
Internet for three days."

She snorted out a laugh.  "So he's pulled off five perfect crimes that
we know of.  And now he's retiring to the farm."

"Yeah.  The funny farm," I said.

"Want to hear about my day?"  she finally asked.

I nodded.

"Well, I visited First Union and I talked with everyone I could find
who was there when Szabo was at the bank.  He was considered very
"dedicated," actually.  But he was wound tight about efficiency and
doing the right thing in exactly the right way.  Some of the others
used it to mock him."

"Mock him in what way?"  I asked.

"Szabo had a nickname, Alex.  Get this it was the Mastermind!  The name
was a joke.  It was supposed to be a joke on Szabo."

"Well, I guess he's turned the joke around.  Now the joke is on us."

Chapter One Hundred and Nine

The strangest thing happened the following morning.  As Szabo was
passing me in the hall, he rubbed against me.  He managed to look
flustered and he apologized for supposedly 'losing his balance," but I
was almost certain he had done it on purpose.  Why?  What the hell was
that all about?

About an hour later, I saw him leaving the ward.  I was pretty sure he
knew I was watching him go.  As soon as he was out, I hurried to the
door.

"Where's Szabo going?"  I asked the aide who'd just let him out.

"PT.  He signed out.  Szabo has full grounds and town.  He can go
wherever he likes."

He had been vegetating on the ward for so long that he'd caught me off
guard.  Tell the head nurse that I had to leave," I said.

"Tell her yourself," The aide frowned and tried to blow me off.

I pushed past him," Tell her.  It's important."

I let myself off the unit and took the rickety and temperamental
elevator down to the lobby floor.  PT was physical therapy, and
Frederic Szabo hated the gym.  I remembered reading it in his nursing
notes.  Where was he really going?

I hurried outside and saw Szabo skulking across the courtyard between
hospital buildings.  Tall and bearded like the physical description
we'd gotten from Brian Macdougall.

When Szabo walked right past the gym, I wasn't surprised.

He was on the move!

He kept on going and I followed.  He seemed kind of nervous and
skittish.  He finally turned his head in my direction and I ducked off
the path.  I didn't think he'd seen me.  Had he?

Szabo continued on and walked through the hospital gates.  The street
outside was filled with traffic.  He walked due south.  Not a care in
the world.  Was this the Mastermind?

He hopped into a cab a couple of blocks from the hospital.  There were
three of them parked in front of a Holiday Inn.

I hurried to one of the other cabs, got in, told the driver to
follow.

The driver was Indian.  "Where are we going, mister?"  he asked.

"I have no idea," I said.  I showed him my detective's badge.

The driver shook his head, then he moaned into his hands.  "Oh brother.
Just my bad luck.  Like the movies -follow that cab."

Chapter One Hundred and Ten

Szabo got out of his cab on Rhode Island Avenue in Northwest.  So did
I. He walked for a while window-shopped.  At least that's what it
looked like.  He seemed more relaxed now.  His nervous tics had
lessened once he was off the hospital grounds.  Probably because he had
been faking them.

He finally turned into a squat, dilapidated brownstone building, still
on Rhode Island Avenue.  The basement floor was a Chinese laundry

-A LEE.

What was he doing in there?  Was he skipping out a back door?  But then
I saw a light flash in the second-floor window.  Szabo crossed past it
a few times.  It was him.  Tall and bearded.

My brain was starting to overload with possibilities.  No one at
Hazelwood knew about Szabo's apartment in DC.  There wasn't any mention
of it in the nursing notes.

Szabo was supposed to be a drifter.  Hopeless, harmless, homeless. That
was the illusion he'd created.  I'd finally learned a secret of his. 
What did it mean?

I waited down on Rhode Island Avenue.  I didn't feel in any particular
danger.  Not yet anyway.

I waited out on the street for quite a while.  He was inside the
building for nearly two hours.  I didn't see him appear at the window
again.  What was he doing in there?  Time flies when you're hanging by
your fingernails.

Then the light in the apartment blinked out.

I watched the building with mounting apprehension.  Szabo didn't come
outside.  I was concerned.  Where was he?

A good five minutes after the light went out upstairs, Szabo appeared
on the front doorstep again.  His nervous tics seemed to have returned.
Maybe they were for real.

He rubbed his eyes repeatedly, and then his lower chin.  He twitched
and continually pulled his shirt away from his chest.  He finger-combed
his thick black hair three or four times.

Was this the Mastermind that I was watching?  It almost didn't seem
possible.  But if he wasn't, where did that leave us?

Szabo kept nervously looking around the street, but I was hidden in the
dark shadows of another building.  I was sure he couldn't see me.  What
was he afraid of?

He started to walk.  I watched him retrace his steps up Rhode Island
Avenue.  Then he waved down a cab.

I didn't follow Szabo.  I wanted to but I had an even stronger urge.  A
hunch I needed to play.  I hurried across the street and entered the
brownstone where he'd spent most of the afternoon.

I had to find out what Szabo had been doing in there.  I finally had to
admit he was driving me crazy.  He was giving me nervous tics.

Chapter One Hundred and Eleven

I used a small, very useful lock-pick and got into Szabo's apartment in
less time than it takes to say' illegal entry.  "No one was ever going
to know I'd been in there.

I was planning to take a quick look around the apartment, then get
right out again.  I doubted he'd leave evidence linking him to the
Metro Hartford kidnapping, or any of the bank jobs.  I needed to see
his place, though.  I had to know more about Szabo than the doctors and
nurses at Hazelwood had written in their reports.  I needed to
understand the Mastermind.

He had a collection of sharpened hunting knives, and he also collected
old guns: Civil War rifles, German Lugers, American Colts.  There were
souvenirs from Vietnam: A ceremonial sword, and a battalion flag of the
K10 NVA Battalion, North Vietnamese.  Mostly, he had books and
magazines in the apartment.  The Evil That Men Do.  Crime and
Punishment.  The Shooting Gazette.  Scientific American.

So far, no big surprises.  Other than that he had the apartment in the
first place.

"Szabo, are you him?"  I finally asked out loud.  Are you the
mastermind?  What the hell is your game, man?"

I quickly searched the living room, a small bedroom, then a
claustrophobic den that obviously served as an office.

Szabo, is this where you plotted everything out?

An unfinished, hand-written letter was lying on the desk in his den. It
looked like he'd been working on it recently.  I began to read.

Mr.  Arthur Lee A Lee Laundry

This is a warning, and if I were you, I'd take it very seriously.

Three weeks ago, I dropped off some dry cleaning to you.  Before I send
out my cleaning, I always enclose a-list of all articles in the
dry-cleaning bag, and a brief description-of each article.

I keep a copy for myself!

The list is orderly and efficient.

The letter went on to say that some clothes of Szabo's were missing.
He'd spoken to someone at the laundry and been promised the clothing
would be sent right over.  It wasn't.

I march right down to your cleaners.  I meet with YOU.  I am enraged
that YOU too can stand there and tell me you don't have my clothes.
Then for the final insult.  You tell me my doorman probably stole
them.

I don't have a fucking doorman!  I live in the same building you do!

Consider yourself warned.  Frederic Szabo

What the hell was this?  I wondered as I finished reading the odd,
crazy and seemingly inconsequential letter.

I shook my head back and forth.  Was the A Lee Laundry his next target?
Was he planning something against Lee?  The Mastermind?

I opened the drawers in a small credenza and found more letters written
to other companies: Citibank, Chase, First Union Bank, Exxon, Kodak,
Bell Atlantic, scores of others.

I sat down and skimmed through the letters.  All of them were hate
mail.  Crazy stuff.  This was Frederic Szabo as he'd been described in
his hospital workups.  Paranoid; angry at the world; a curmudgeonous
fifty-one-year-old who had been fired from every job he'd had during
the past ten years.

I was getting more confused rather than clearer about Szabo.  I ran my
fingers along the top of a tall filing cabinet.  There were papers up
there.  I pulled them down and took a look.

There were blueprints of the banks that had been robbed!

And a layout of the Renaissance Mayflower Hotel!

"Christ, it is him," I muttered out loud.  What were the blueprints
doing here, though?

I don't remember exactly what happened next.  Maybe it was shifting
light, or motion in the room that I caught out of the corner of my
eye.

I turned away from Szabo's work desk.  My eyes went wide with surprise,
then total shock.  My heart skipped.

A man was coming at me with a hunting knife clasped in his hand.  He
was wearing a President Clinton mask.  He was screaming my name!

Chapter One Hundred and Twelve

"CROSS!"

I reached out both hands to try and stop the arm chopping down toward
me.  The hunting knife it held was much like the ones on display in the
other room.  My hands wrapped around the powerful arm.  If this was
Szabo, he was stronger and a lot more agile than he'd looked at the
hospital.

"What are you doing?"  he screamed.  "How dare you?  How dare you touch
my personal property?"  He sounded completely crazy.  "These letters
are private!"

I pivoted off my right leg and yanked the hand holding the knife
sharply.  The blade stuck several inches into the wooden desk.  The
masked man grunted and cursed.

Now what?  I couldn't chance bending down to get my gun from my ankle
holster.  The masked man easily wriggled the knife free.  He swung it
in a small lethal arc.  He missed the thrust by a few inches.  The
blade whistled past my temple.

"You're going to die, Cross," he screamed

I spotted a cut-glass baseball on his desk.  It was the only thing
resembling a weapon that I saw anywhere.  I grabbed it.  Sidearmed it
at him!

I heard a crunching sound as the paperweight struck a glancing blow off
the side of his skull.  He roared loudly, angrily, like an injured
animal.  Then he wobbled backwards.  He didn't go down.

I bent quickly and pulled at my Clock.  It hitched once, then came free
in my hand.

He flailed at me again with the large, lethal-looking knife.

"Stop!"I yelled," I will shoot you."

He kept coming.  He roared out words that were unintelligible.  He took
another swipe with the knife.  This time, he cut me on the right wrist.
It burned, hurt like hell.

I fired the Clock.  The bullet hit him in the upper chest.  It didn't
stop him!  He spun sideways, righted himself.  "Fuck you, Cross.  You're
nothing."

I drove my head hard into his chest.  I aimed for the general area
where he'd been wounded.

He screamed, a horrifying high-pitched moan.  Then he dropped the
knife.

I wrapped both arms as tight as I could around him.  My legs churned
hard.  I kept driving him across the room until we hit a wall.  The
whole building shuddered.

Somebody in the next apartment banged on a wall and complained about
the noise.

"Call the police!"I yelled.  "Call nine-one-one."

I had him pinned to the floor, and he was moaning loudly that I'd hurt
him.  He continued to struggle and fight.  I hit him squarely on the
jaw and he finally stopped.  Then I pulled off the rubber mask.

It was Szabo.

"You're the Mastermind," I gasped.  "It is you."

"I didn't do anything," he snarled back.  He started to struggle again.
He cursed loudly.  "You broke into my house.  You fool!  You're all
goddamn fools.  Listen to me, asshole.  Listen!  You got the wrong
man!"

Chapter One Hundred and Thirteen

It was a madhouse and that certainly seemed appropriate for the
dramatic capture.  A team of FBI technicians arrived at Frederic
Szabo's apartment in less than an hour.  I recognized two of them, Greg
Wojcik and Jack Heeney, from past jobs.  They were the FBI's best, and
they began to expertly take the place apart.

I stayed on and watched the painstaking search.  The techies were
looking for false walls, loose floorboards, anywhere Szabo might have
concealed evidence, or possibly hidden fifteen million dollars.

Betsey Cavalierre got to the apartment just after the technical crew. I
was glad to see her.  She and I tried to question Frederic Szabo.  He
wouldn't talk to us.  Not a word.  He seemed crazier than ever; manic
one moment, then quiet and unresponsive the next.  He did what he was
known for at Hazelwood he spit at me several times.  Szabo spit until
his mouth was dry.  Then he wrapped his arms around himself, and was
silent.

Szabo shut his eyes tight.  He wouldn't look at either of us, wouldn't
respond in any way.  Finally, he was taken away in a straitjacket.

"Where's the money?  "Betsey asked as we watched Szabo leaving the
building.

"He's the only one who knows and he sure as hell isn't talking.  I have
never, ever felt more out of it on a case."

The next day was a rainy, miserable, godawful Friday.  Betsey and I
went to the Metropolitan Detention Center where Frederic Szabo was
being held.

The press was gathered in large numbers everywhere outside the
building.  Neither of us said a word as we passed through them.  We hid
under and behind a big black umbrella and the streaking rain as we
hurried inside.

"Pitiful, goddamn vultures," Betsey whispered to me," Three things are
certain in this life: Death, taxes, and that the press will get it
wrong.  They will, you know."

"Once somebody writes it wrong, it stays wrong," I said.

We met with Szabo in a small, anonymous-looking room attached to the
cellblock.  He was no longer confined in a straitjacket, but he looked
out of it.  His court-appointed lawyer was present.  Her name was Lynda
Cole, and she didn't seem to like Szabo much more than we did.

I was surprised that Szabo hadn't gone after a bigger-name attorney,
but just about everything he did surprised me.  He didn't think like
other people.  That was his strength, wasn't it?  It was what he loved
about himself, and maybe it was what had brought him down.

Once again, Szabo wouldn't look at us for several minutes.  Betsey and
I tried a steady battery of questions, but he was completely,
stubbornly unresponsive.  His dosage of haldol had been increased, and
I wondered if that had anything to do with his listlessness.  Somehow I
doubted it.  I felt he might be play-acting again.

"This is hopeless, "Betsey finally said after we'd been there for over
an hour.  She was right.  It was futile to spend anymore time with
Szabo that day.

She and I got up to leave, and so did Lynda Cole, who was small like
Betsey, and very attractive.  She hadn't said more than a dozen words
during the hour.  There wasn't any need for her to talk if her client
didn't.  Szabo suddenly looked up from a spot on the table.  He'd been
staring at it for at least twenty minutes.

He looked straight at me and he finally spoke.  "You got the wrong
man."

Then Frederic Szabo grinned like the craziest person I have ever met in
my life.  And I've met some very crazy people.

Chapter One Hundred and Fourteen

Betsey Cavalierre and I returned to Hazelwood and the mountains of
grunt work that still had to be done there.  Sampson met us.  By
ten-thirty that night, we'd gone through everything we could find at
the hospital.  We had managed to identify nineteen staff members who'd
spent time with Szabo.  The short list included six therapists who'd
seen him.

Betsey and I tacked the pictures up on one wall.  Then I walked back
and forth staring at them, hoping for a blinding insight.  Where the
hell was the money?  How had Szabo actually controlled the
robbery-murders?

I sat down again.  Betsey was sipping her sixth or seventh Diet Coke.
I'd matched her coffee for Coke.  Intermittently, we had revisited the
mystery of James Walsh's supposed suicide and the sudden disappearance
of Michael Doud.  Szabo had refused to answer any questions about the
two agents.  Why would he murder the two of them?  What was his real
plan?  Goddamn him!

"Could Szabo really be behind all this, Alex?  Is he that clever?  That
goddamn evil?  That nuts?"

I pushed myself up from the desk I was working at.  "I don't know
anymore.  It's late again.  I'm fried, Betsey.  I'm out of here.
Tomorrow's another day."

The overhead lights were blinding and hurtful.  Betsey's eyes were
red-rimmed and vacant as they stared up at me.  I wanted to hug her
some but half a dozen agents were still working in the office.  I ached
to hold her in my arms, to talk to her about anything but the case.

"Goodnight," I finally said.  "Get some sleep."

"Night, Alex."  ," miss you, she mouthed.

"Be careful,"I said.  "Be careful going home."

"I always am.  You be careful."

I got home somehow and climbed upstairs to bed.  I'd been working too
hard for too long.  Maybe I did need to quit the job.  I hit the pillow
hard.  At about twenty past two I woke up.  I'd been having a
conversation with Frederic Szabo in my sleep.  Then I talked to someone
else from the investigation.  Oh brother.

It was a bad, bad time to be awake.  I usually don't remember my
dreams, which probably means I'm repressing them but I woke with a
clear and very disturbing image of the last couple of minutes.

The bank robber Tony Brophy had been describing his meeting with the
Mastermind; how he'd been sitting behind bright lights and could only
see a silhouette of the man.  The silhouette he described didn't match
the shape of Frederic Szabo's head.  Not even close.  He had talked
about a big hooked nose and large ears.  He'd mentioned the ears a
couple of times.  Big ears, like a car with both doors open.  Szabo
actually had small ears and a regular nose.

But there was someone else who came to mind!  Jesus!  I rolled over out
of bed.  I stared out my window until my mind was clearer and more
focused.  Then I called Betsey.

She picked up after the second ring.  Her voice was a soft, muffled
moan.

"It's Alex.  Sorry to call you, to wake you.  I think I know who the
Mastermind is."

"Is this a bad dream?"  she muttered.

"Oh, definitely," I told her.  "This is our worst nightmare."

Chapter One Hundred and Fifteen

There were two Masterminds.  It sounded crazy to me at first, but then
I was almost sure it had to be the answer to so many things about the
investigation that didn't make sense.

Szabo was one Mastermind, but he'd been given the name as a joke
because he was too efficient, too perfect.  There was someone else.  A
second Mastermind.  This person wasn't a joke to his peers he had no
peers; he didn't write hate mail from his room at a veterans
hospital.

It took me a few minutes to convince Betsey that I might be right. Then
we called Kyle Craig at Quantico.  We went two-on-one until Kyle was
convinced enough to let us move forward in a whole new and
mind-boggling direction.

At eleven that morning, she and I boarded a plane at Boiling Field.  Up
until a few weeks earlier I'd never been to Boiling, but lately I
seemed to be flying out of there more often than out of National, or
Ronald Reagan as it's now called.

Just past one o'clock we landed at Palm Beach International Airport in
south Florida.  It was ninety-five degrees outside, humid as hell.  I
didn't care about the heat.  I was excited, pumped-up about possibly
solving the puzzle.  We were met by FBI agents, but Betsey was in
charge, even in Florida.  The local agents deferred to her.

We got on 1-95 North once we left the small, very well-run airport.  We
proceeded about ten miles, then headed east toward the ocean and Singer
Island.  The sun looked like a lemon drop melting in bright blue
skies.

I'd had time on the flight to think about my theory of two Masterminds.
The more I thought it through, the surer I became that we were on the
right track finally.  A vivid image kept flashing through my mind.

It was a photograph of a therapist named Dr.  Bernard Francis.  The
photo had been stapled to Francis's personnel file.  Two other photos
had been hanging on the walls of Dr.  Cioffi's office.  I'd seen them
there when I interviewed him.  Bernard Francis was tall and balding,
with a broad forehead and a hooked nose.  He also had large ears,
floppy ones.  Like a car with both doors open.

Francis had been Frederic Szabo's therapist for nine weeks in '97, and
then for five months last year.  Toward the end of the year he had
transferred to Florida, supposedly to work at the veterans hospital in
north West Falm.  Once I'd established a link to Francis, several other
connections followed.  According to the nursing notes, Dr.  Francis had
accompanied Szabo off the grounds on at least three occasions last
year.  The trips weren't unusual in themselves, but under the
circumstances they were very interesting to me.

During the plane ride to Florida, I reread the actual notes Dr. Francis
had made about Szabo in '97, and then last year.

One of the very insightful early notes posed the question, Did pt
actually spend the past twenty-some years wandering the country
performing odd jobs?  Somehow, this doesn't ring true.  Suspect pt has
a very active fantasy life and may be withholding from us.  What really
precipitated pt's stay at Hazelwood this year?

Betsey and I knew the answer to that question, and we suspected Francis
had found out, too.  In February of '96, Frederic Szabo had been fired
from his job as head of security at First Union.  There had been a
series of unsolved robberies at First Unions in Virginia and Maryland.
Szabo had blamed himself for the lapse in security, and then, so had
the bank.  They finally fired him.

Soon after that he had a nervous breakdown and checked himself into
Hazelwood, which was where the fun and mind games began.

Chapter One Hundred and Sixteen

We set up a round-the-clock surveillance post outside Dr.  Francis's
condominium on Singer Island.  The place was a sprawling four-bedroom
penthouse with a roof deck; it was right on the water.  It seemed
beyond the means of the average therapist at a veterans hospital.  Of
course, Dr.  Francis didn't consider himself an average therapist.

Francis was spending the evening entertaining a blonde woman who looked
to be about half his age.  To give him his due, he was a slender man of
forty-five and appeared to be in good shape.  She was a stunning
beauty, though; she wore a black string bikini with high-heeled black
pumps.  She was constantly rearranging her cleavage and pushing her
long blonde hair out of her eyes.

"Very fetching," Betsey said and frowned.  "Looks like she's caught
herself a real killer date."

Betsey, two other agents, and I camped out in a Dodge van in a parking
lot behind the condos.  The lot was nearly full and the van blended in.
It had a periscope that followed us to watch Francis and his guest as
they barbecued steaks on his deck.  The FBI had already identified the
blonde woman as a dancer at an 'upscale topless steak house' in West
Palm.  She had previous arrests for soliciting and prostitution in Fort
Lauderdale.  Her name was Bianca Massie and she was twenty-three years
old.

We watched the good doctor as he frequently hugged and fondled the
blonde woman while cooking dinner.  Then the two of them disappeared
inside for about ten minutes.  They came out again and, during the
meal, they played footsie and stroked each other.  They finished a
second bottle of Stag's Leap Cabernet, then disappeared inside again.

"What can we see in there?  "Betsey asked one of the agents," I need a
picture."

"Our man on the other roof can see inside the condo through several of
the southern-exposure windows," one of the agents reported.

"It's an easy-sleazy bachelor pad.  Expensive furniture, lots of
etchings.  Bose sound system, free weights.  The doc has a black Lab he
probably uses to pick up more ladies on the beach."

"I don't think he picked her up," I said.  "More likely, he leased her
for the night."

"He and the young lady are intimately involved at the moment.  The
black Lab seems to have taught the doc a few things.  He knows some
doggy tricks.  Our lookout says that his ears and nose are much larger
than a certain other part of his anatomy."

That got a laugh from the group.  It also eased the tension.  We were a
little fearful for the girl, but we were close enough to get inside in
a hurry.

The lookout continued to report on what he saw.  "Oops, the doc would
appear to be a premature ejaculator.  The young lady doesn't seem to
mind.  Awhh, she kissed him on the top of his head, poor baby."

"You get what you pay for," Betsey said.

Finally, the blonde woman left and the steamy movie was over for the
night.  Dr.  Francis stayed out on the deck, sipping a snifter of
brandy, watching the moon ride high over the Atlantic.

"Ahh, the good life," Betsey said.  "Moon over Miami and all that neat
stuff."

"He only had to kill about a dozen people to get his place in the sun,"
I said.

Francis's cell phone rang around midnight.  We listened to the call
from the surveillance van.  The call definitely got our attention.
Betsey and I exchanged glances.

The caller sounded nervous.  "Bernie, they're all over this place
again.  They're looking at staff now.  They '

Francis cut in," It's late.  I'll call you in the morning.  ," '," ,"
call you.  Don't call me here.  I've told you that.  Please, don't do
it again."

Dr.  Francis hung up angrily.  He drained the rest of his brandy.

Betsey elbowed me.  She was smiling for the first time since we'd been
watching Francis.  "Alex, you recognize the voice on the other end?"
she asked.

I sure did.  "The lovely and talented Kathleen McGuigan.  Nurse
McGuigan is part of this.  It's all starting to come together, isn't
it?"

Chapter One Hundred and Seventeen

It was really easy to loathe Dr.  Bernard Francis.  He was human scum,
the worst of the worst, a killer who liked to make his victims suffer.
It made the late-night-surveillance job easier, almost bearable.  So
did the idea that Francis was the Mastermind, and that we were close to
nailing him to the walls of his pink stucco, Mediterranean-style
condo.

Kathleen McGuigan didn't try to call Francis back that night.  And he
didn't call her.  Around one o'clock, he went inside to bed and turned
on his alarm system.

"Sweet dreams, you bastard, "Betsey said as the house lights went
off.

"We know where he lives.  We know he did it if not exactly how.  But we
can't bring him down?"  one of the agents complained once Francis had
turned in for the night.

"Patience, patience,"I said.  "We just got here.  We'll get Dr.
Francis.  We just want to watch him a little longer.  We need to be
absolutely sure this time.  And, we want the money he stole."

Betsey and I finally left the surveillance van around two in the
morning.  We took one of the Bureau's sedans.  She drove off Singer
Island.  Everyone else was staying at a Holiday Inn in West Palm.  We
headed north on 1-95.

"Is this okay?"  she asked once we were on the interstate.  She looked
more vulnerable than I was used to seeing her.  "There's a Hyatt
Regency a few exits north."

"I like being with you, Betsey.  Right from the first time we met," I
told her.

"Yeah.  I can tell, Alex.  But not enough, huh?"

I looked over at her.  I liked Betsey even more when she was a little
unsure of herself.  "You want candor and honesty at two-fifteen in the
morning?"  I joked.

"Absolutely, relentlessly."

"I know this is a little crazy, but '

She finally smiled.  "I can handle crazy."

"I don't know exactly what's going on in my life right now.  I'm
floating with the tide a little bit.  This isn't like me.  Maybe that's
a good thing."

"You're also still trying to get over Christine," she said.  "I think
you're doing it the right way.  You're being brave."

"Or very foolish," I said and smiled.

"Probably a little of both.  But proactive.  You're untroubled and
simple on the surface in a good way.  But you're complex in a good way.
You're probably thinking, I could say the same about you."

"Not really.  Actually, I was thinking that I'm lucky to have met
you."

"This doesn't have to go anywhere special, Alex.  It's already special
to me," she said.  Her eyes were so beautiful, incandescent.  "Anyway,
will you come home with me tonight?  Home away from home.  My humble
room at the Hyatt?"

"I'd love to, more than anything."

When we parked outside the hotel entrance, Betsey leaned in close and
kissed me.  I pulled her against my chest and held her tight.  We
stayed like that for a couple of minutes.

'I'm going to miss you so much," she whispered.

Chapter One Hundred and Eighteen

The rest of the night flew by and I think both of us hated to see it
go.  I kept thinking about what Betsey had said that she was going to
miss me.  She and I were back inside the FBI surveillance van by nine
the following morning.  The van already smelled badly.  Dry ice sat in
twin buckets in the corner, throwing off a vapor and making the cramped
space almost livable.

"What's happening, gentlemen?"  she asked the agents crowded into the
van.  "Did I miss any fun?  Is the Masterprick up yet?"

We were told that Francis was up, and that he hadn't called Kathleen
McGuigan yet.  I had an idea and made a suggestion.  Betsey liked it a
lot.  We called Kyle Craig and got him at home.  Kyle liked the idea
too.

Agents in Arlington, Virginia, arrested Nurse McGuigan at a little past
ten that morning.  She was questioned, and denied knowing anything
about a relationship between Dr.  Bernard Francis and Frederic Szabo.
She also denied any involvement in the scheme herself.  She said that
the allegations against her were ridiculous.  She hadn't called Francis
the night before and we were welcome to check her phone records.

Agents, meanwhile, were searching McGuigan's house and yard.  Around
noon, they found one of the diamonds from the Metro-Hartford job.
McGuigan panicked and she changed her story.  She told the FBI what she
knew about Dr.  Francis, Frederic Szabo, and the robbery-murders.

"Yes, yes, yes, yes, "Betsey Cavalierre said and jumped around the back
of the surveillance van when she heard the news.  She bumped her head
on the van roof.  "That hurts.  I don't care.  We've got him!  Dr.
Francis is going down."

At a little past two that afternoon, she and I walked across the
manicured front lawn and up the brick stairway into Francis's building.
My heart was thudding in my chest.  This was it.  It had to be.  We
took the elevator up to the fifth floor the penthouse, the Mastermind's
lair.

"We've earned the right to do this," I told her.

"I can't wait to see his face," Betsey said as she rang the bell.
"Cold-blooded piece of shit.  Ding-dong, guess who's at the front door?
This is for Walsh and Doud."

"And the little Buccieri boy all the others he had killed."

Dr.  Francis answered the door.  He was tan, dressed in Florida Gators
sweatpants, a Miami Dolphins T-shirt, no socks or shoes.  He didn't
look like a cold-blooded and heartless monster.  So often, they
don't.

Betsey identified who we were.  She then told Dr.  Francis we were part
of the team investigating the Metro Hartford kidnapping and several
bank robberies back East.

Francis seemed momentarily confused.  "I don't think I understand.  Why
are you here?  I haven't been in Washington, well, in nearly a year.  I
don't see how I can help you with any robberies up north.  Are you sure
you have the right address?"

I spoke up.  "May we come in, Dr.  Francis?  This is the right address.
Trust me on that.  We want to talk to you about a former patient of
yours named Frederic Szabo."

Francis managed to look even more confused.  He was playing his part
well and I guess I wasn't surprised.

"Frederic Szabo?  You're kidding me, right?"

"We kid you not," Betsey said emphatically.

Francis became petulant.  His face and neck flushed.  "I'll be in my
office at the hospital in West Falm tomorrow.  The hospital is on Blue
Heron.  We can talk about my former patients there.  Frederic Szabo?
Jesus!  That was almost a year ago.  What has he done?  Is this about
his crank letters to the Fortune 500?  You people are incredible.
Please leave my home now."

Dr.  Francis tried to slam the door in my face.  I stopped it with the
heel of my hand.  My heart continued to beat hard.  This was so good
-we had him.

"This can't wait until Monday, Doctor,"I told him," It can't wait at
all."

He sighed, but continued to look incredibly pissed off.  "Oh, all
right, I was just making myself coffee.  Come in, if you must."

"We must," I told the Mastermind.

Chapter One Hundred and Nineteen

"Why the hell are you here?"  Francis asked again as we followed him
through an all-glass loggia that faced down on to the rolling surf of
the Atlantic several floors below.  The view was spectacular, worth at
least a couple of murders.  The afternoon sun created countless stars
and diamonds which danced on the water's surface.  Life was so very
good for Dr.  Bernard Francis.

"Frederic Szabo figured it all out for you, didn't he?"  I said, just
to break the ice.  "He had an elaborate fantasy for revenge against the
banks.  He had all the know-how, the obsession, the contacts.  Isn't
that how it happened?"

"What the hell are you talking about?"  Francis looked at Betsey and me
as if we were as deranged as some of his mental patients.

I ignored the look and the condescension in his voice.  "You heard
about his plans in your therapy sessions with Szabo.  You were
impressed by the detail, the precision.  He'd thought through
everything.  You also learned he hadn't been a drifter all those years
since the war.  You found out he'd worked for First Union Bank.
Surprise, surprise.  He'd been a security executive.  He really did
know about banks and how to rob them.  He was crazy, but not in the way
you had thought."

Francis flicked on a coffeemaker on the kitchen counter.  "I won't even
dignify this horse shit with a response.  I'd offer you both coffee,
but I'm angry.  I'm really pissed off.  Please finish with your
nonsense, then you can both leave."

"I don't want coffee," I said.  "I want you, Francis.  You killed all
those people, without any remorse.  You murdered Walsh and Doud. You're
the madman, the Mastermind.  Not Frederic Szabo."

"It's you who is crazy.  You're both crazy," Dr.  Francis said.  "I'm a
respected physician, a decorated army officer."  _

Then he smiled almost as if he couldn't help it and the look on
Francis's face said it all: I can do anything I want to do.  You're
nothing to me.  I do what I want to.  I'd seen that horrible look
before.  I knew it well.  Gary Soneji, Casanova, Mr.  Smith, the
Weasel.  He was a psychopath too.  Francis was as crazy as any of the
killers I'd caught.  Maybe he'd spent too long being underappreciated
working in veterans hospitals.  Undoubtedly, it went a lot deeper than
that.

"One of the bank-crew members you interviewed remembered you.  He
described you as having a hooked nose, large ears.  That's not Frederic
Szabo."

Francis turned away from his coffee-making and let out a harsh,
unpleasant laugh.  "Oh, that's very compelling evidence, Detective. I'd
like to hear you present it to the district attorney in Washington.
I'll bet the DA would get a good belly laugh out of it too."

I smiled back at him.  "We already have talked to the DA.  She didn't
laugh.  By the way, Kathleen McGuigan has talked to us too.  Since you
didn't return her call, we went to see her.  You're under arrest for
robbery, kidnapping, and murder.  Doctor Francis, I see that you aren't
laughing anymore."

He continued to make his coffee.  I sensed that his mind was racing way
ahead of the conversation.  "You notice that I'm not rushing to call my
lawyer either."

"You should," I told him.  "There's something else you should know.
Szabo finally talked this morning.  Frederic Szabo kept a diary of your
sessions, Doctor.  He kept notes.  He wrote about your interest in his
plans.  You know how efficient Frederic can be.  How thorough.  He said
you asked more questions in his therapy sessions about the robberies
than you asked about him.  He showed you his blueprints for
everything."

"We want the money, the fifteen million dollars," Betsey told Francis.
"If we recover the money then everything will go easier for you. That's
the best offer you're going to get."

Francis's disdain was blossoming.  "Let's suppose for a moment that I
was this Mastermind you speak of.  Don't you think I'd have a stunning
escape plan figured?  You couldn't just barge in here and capture me.
The Mastermind wouldn't allow himself to be caught by two peons like
you."

It was finally my turn to smile.  "I don't know about that, Francis. We
peons might surprise you.  I think you're on your own now.  Did Szabo
give you an escape plan too?  He probably didn't."

Chapter One Hundred and Twenty

"Actually, he did," Francis said, and his voice was at least an octave
lower than it had been.  "There was always a slim, slim possibility
that you'd catch me.  That I'd be faced with life in jail.  That's
totally unacceptable, you understand.  It isn't going to happen.  You
do understand that?"

"No, actually, it is going to happen," Betsey said with firmness to
match Francis's statement.  Meanwhile, my hand was already reaching for
my gun.

Suddenly, Francis broke for the glass door that led out on to the
rooftop deck.  I knew there was nowhere for him to go out there.  What
was he doing?

"Francis, no!"I shouted.

Betsey and I pulled our guns simultaneously, but we didn't fire.  There
was no reason to kill him.  We rushed out through the door and followed
Francis in a sprint across the weathered, wooden deck.

When he reached the far wall of the roof deck, Francis did something I
would never have imagined, not in a hundred lifetimes of police work.

He dove off the terrace which was at least five floors above the
street.  Bernard Francis dove headfirst.  He'd break his neck for sure.
There was no way he'd live.

"I don't believe it!  "Betsey screeched as we got to the edge of the
deck and looked down.

I didn't believe what I saw either.  Francis had made a dive five
stories down to a shimmery blue swimming pool.  He surfaced and began
to stroke rapidly toward the pool's far wall.

I had no choice and I didn't hesitate.  I went off the high roof deck
after Dr.  Francis.

Betsey was no more than half a step behind me.

We both yelled as we cannonballed all the way down to the pool.

I hit the surface of the water with my backside first, and I was
punished severely.  My body went splat.  My insides felt as if they'd
been hastily rearranged.

I shot to the bottom, hit it pretty hard, but then I was paddling to
the surface, swimming as fast as I could toward the far wall.  I was
trying to clear my head, to focus my eyes, to think clearly about
stopping the Mastermind's escape.

I climbed out of the pool and saw Francis running on to the property of
the bordering condominiums.  He was throwing off water like a duck.

Betsey and I started after him.  Our shoes were squeaking and sloughing
water.  Nothing mattered except that we had to catch him.

Francis was picking up speed and I did the same.  I guessed he must
have a car parked in one of the neighboring lots or maybe even a boat
in a nearby marina.

I was gaining very little ground for all my efforts.  Francis was
running barefoot, but it didn't seem to slow him down.

He peered over his shoulder and saw us.  Then he straightened his head
and saw something that changed everything.

Up ahead of Francis in the parking lot were three FBI agents.  They had
their guns drawn, aimed at him.  They were yelling for him to stop.

Francis came to a dead stop in the crowded lot.  He looked back at us,
then faced the three agents.  He reached into his pants pocket.

"Francis, don't do it!"I yelled as I ran toward him.

But he didn't pull a gun.  He had a clear bottle in his hand.  He
poured the contents into his mouth.

Dr.  Francis suddenly clawed at his throat.  His eyes bulged to double
their normal size.  He fell to his knees, which cracked hard against
the pavement.

"He poisoned himself, "Betsey said in a hoarse voice.  "My God,
Alex."

Francis rose from the ground with a burst of strength.  We watched in
horror as he thrashed wildly around the parking lot, flailing both
arms, doing a strange, straight-backed dance.  He was frothing from the
mouth.  Finally, he smashed his face into a silver Mercedes SUV.  Blood
spattered on to the hood.

He screamed, tried to tell us something; but it came out a tortured
gargle.  Blood gushed from his nose.  He twitched and spasmed.

More agents were flooding into the parking area.  So were condo owners
and visitors.  There was nothing any of us could do for Francis.  He'd
killed people, poisoned some.  He had murdered two FBI agents.  Now we
were watching him die, and it was horrifying.  It was taking a long
time.

He fell and thudded heavily to the ground again.  His head cracked hard
against the pavement.  The spasms and twitching slowed noticeably.  A
terrible gargling sound escaped from his throat.

I got down on my hands and knees beside `>/:,' him.  "Where is Agent Doud?
Where's Michael Doud?"  I pleaded.  "For God's sake, tell us."

Francis stared up at me, and he said the last words I wanted to hear.
"You've got the wrong man."

Then he died.

Epilogue

The Right Man

Chapter One Hundred and Twenty-One

Three weeks had passed and my life was finally returning to something
approaching normal.  Not a day went by that I didn't think about
getting out of police work, though.  I didn't know if it had been the
intensity of the Mastermind case, or an accumulation of cases, but I
was experiencing all the basic- symptoms of job burnout.

Most of the fifteen million dollars from Francis's share hadn't been
found, and that was driving everybody at the FBI a little crazy.
Locating it was consuming all of Betsey's time.  She was working
weekends again and I hadn't seen much of her.  She had said it all in
Florida, I suppose.  I'm going to miss you so much.

Tonight was Nana Mama's fault; at least I blamed her for it.  Here we
were Sampson and I trapped inside the ancient and venerable First
Baptist Church on Fourth Street near my house.

All around Sampson and me, men and women were sobbing.  The minister
and his wife were busy telling everybody that the outpouring of emotion
was for the best just to let it all out, the anger, the fear, the
poison inside.  Which just about everybody in the church was doing.
Everybody but Sampson and me seemed to be crying their eyes out.

"Nana Mama owes us big time for this little number," Sampson leaned in
and said in a whisper.

I smiled at what he'd said, his lack of understanding of this woman
he'd known since he was ten years old.  "Not in her mind.  Not to her
way of thinking.  We still owe Nana for all the times she saved our
little butts when we were growing up."

"Well, she does have a point there, sugar.  But this wipes out a lot of
old debts."

"You're preaching to the choir," I told him.

"No, the choir's busy wailing, "he said and chuckled," This is
definitely a three-hankie evening."

John and I were squeezed in tight between two, women who were weeping
and shouting prayers and amens and other heartfelt entreaties.  The
occasion was something called "Sister, I'm sorry," a special church
service that was gaining popularity in DC.  Men came to churches and
other venues to pay tribute to the women for all the physical and
emotional abuse they had taken, and the abuse they might have given
women in their lifetimes.

"It's so good of you to come," the woman next to me suddenly proclaimed
in a voice loud enough for me to hear over the shouting and screaming
around us.  She hugged my shoulder.  "You're a good man, Alex.  One of
the few."

"Yeah, that's my problem," I muttered under my breath.  But then, loud
enough for her to hear, I said, "Sister, I'm sorry.  You're a good
woman too.  You're a sweetheart."

The woman grabbed me harder.  She was a sweetheart, actually.  Her name
was Terri Rashad.  She was in her early thirties, attractive, proud and
usually joyful.  I had seen her around the neighborhood.

"Sister, I'm sorry," I heard Sampson say to the woman standing beside
him in the church pew.

"Well, you damn well ought to be sorry," I heard Lace McCray say.  "But
thank you.  You're not as bad as I thought you were."

Sampson eventually nudged me and whispered in his deep voice, "It's
kind of emotional when you get into it.  Maybe Nana was right to have
us come."

"She knows that.  Nana is always right," I said," She's like an
octogenarian Oprah."

"How're you doing, sugar?"  John finally asked as the singing and
screeching and sobbing crescendoed.

I thought about it for a few seconds.  "Oh, I miss Christine.  But
we're happy to have the boy with us.  Nana says it will add years to
her life.  He lights up our whole house, morning to night.  He thinks
we're all his staff."

Christine had left for Seattle at the end of June.  At least she'd
finally told me where she was going.  I'd gone over to Mitchellville to
say goodbye to her.  Her new SUV was packed up.  Everything was ready.
Christine finally gave me a hug and then she started to cry, to heave
against my body.  "Maybe someday," she whispered.  Maybe someday,

But now she was out in the state of Washington, and I was here in the
Baptist church in my neighborhood.  I figured Nana Mama was trying to
get me a date.  It was a funny idea actually, and I finally started to
laugh.

"You sorry for the sisters, Alex?"  Sampson asked.  He was getting
gabby.  I looked at Sampson, then around the church.

"Sure I am.  Lots of good people here, trying to do the best they can.
They just want to be loved a little bit now and then."

"Nothing wrong with that," Sampson said and clasped me hard around the
shoulder.

"No.  Nothing at all.  Just trying to do the best we can."

Chapter One Hundred and Twenty-Two

A couple of nights later, I was home playing the piano on the sun porch
at around eleven-thirty.  The rest of the house was silent, nice and
peaceful, the way I like it sometimes.  I had just gone up, checked on
the boy, and found him sleeping like a precious little angel in his
crib.  I was playing Gershwin, one of my favorites, "Rhapsody in
Blue."

I was thinking about my family, about our old house on Fifth Street,
and how much I loved it here in spite of everything that was wrong with
the neighborhood.  I was starting to get my head on straight again.
Maybe all that screeching and crying in the Baptist church had helped.
Or maybe it was the Gershwin.

The phone rang and I hurried to the kitchen to get it before it woke
everyone up, especially little Alex, or AJ, as Jannie and Damon had
started to call him.

It was Kyle Craig on the line.

Kyle almost never called the house and never this late.  This was how
everything had started on the Mastermind case with Kyle.

"Kyle," I said, 'why are you calling me here?  What's wrong?  I can't
start on another case."

"It's bad, Alex.  I don't even know how to tell you this," he said in
the softest, quietest voice.  "Oh shit, Alex... Betsey Cavalierre is
dead.  I'm at her place now.  You should come here.  Just come."

I hung up the phone a minute or so later.  I must have because it was
back on its hook.  My legs and arms had turned to jelly.  I was biting
the inside of my cheek and I tasted blood.  I was reeling.  Kyle hadn't
told me everything, just that I should come to Betsey's house.  Someone
had broken in there and killed her.  Who had killed her?  Jesus. Why?

I was throwing on some clothes to go and meet Kyle when the phone rang
a second time.  I snatched it up.  It had to be somebody else with the
bad news.  Probably Sampson, or maybe Rakeem Powell.

I heard a voice on the line.  It froze everything inside of me.

"I just wanted to congratulate you.  You did wonderful work.  You
caught and punished all my little minions, as I thought you might.
Actually, they were put there for that very purpose."

"Who is this?"  I asked.  But I thought I knew who it was.

"You know who it is, Doctor Detective Cross.  You're a smart enough
fellow.  You knew that catching the good Doctor Francis was a little
too convenient.  Also my detective friends in New York Mr.  Brian
Macdougall and his crew.  And of course there's still the matter of all
that missing money.  I'm the one you call Mastermind.  That's a name I
can live with.  It fits.  I am that good.

"Goodnight for now.  I'll see you soon.  Oh, and have a nice time over
at Betsey Cavalierre's.  I certainly did."

Chapter One Hundred and Twenty-Three

I called Sampson first and asked him to come out and be with Nana and
the kids.  Then I raced out to Woodbridge, Virginia, and Betsey's
house.  I drove the HOV lane all the way at speeds up to a hundred.

I had never been there before, but I didn't have any trouble finding
her house.  There were cars double-parked everywhere on the street.
Several were Crown Victorias and Grand Marquises.  I figured most of
them were FBI.  EMS was there too.  I could hear the burping screams of
more sirens racing to the murder scene.

I took a deep breath before I walked inside.  Suddenly I felt dizzy.
Kyle was still there, directing the Bureau's Violent Crime Unit as it
began to collect evidence.  I shook my head: I doubted they would find
much here.  They hadn't at crime scenes where the Mastermind had been
involved before this.

A few FBI agents were crying.  I had cried during the car ride here,
but right now I needed to be as clear and focused as possible.  This
was the only chance I would get to see Betsey's house close to the way
the killer had seen it, the way he had left it for us.

It looked as if there had been a break-in.  A window in the kitchen had
been tampered with.  FBI techs were videotaping it now.  I couldn't
help noticing Betsey's things, her style, her home.  On the
refrigerator was the Newsweek cover of the American Women's Soccer
World Cup champion Brandi Chastain and the headline' Girls Rule!"

The house looked to be close to a hundred years old and was filled with
country clutter.  Andrew Wyeth paintings, photos of loons in autumn on
a gorgeous lake.  On a hallway table I noticed a reminder for Betsey's
next mandatory shooting qualifier at the FBI range.

Finally, I did the really hard thing, the impossible thing.  I walked
down a long hallway that led back from the living room.  The master
bedroom was at the end of the hall.  It was easy to tell that she had
been murdered there.  The FBI's activity centered around the rear
bedroom.  The murder scene.  It had happened right here.

I still hadn't spoken to Kyle, hadn't bothered him, hadn't pulled him
away from the VCU team and their search of the place.  Maybe we would
get lucky this time.  And maybe not.

Then I saw Betsey and I lost it.  My left hand flew to my face as if it
had a mind and will of its own.  My legs buckled badly.  My entire body
shook.

I could hear his goddamn voice ringing inside my head: Oh, and have a
nice time ewer at Betsey Cavalierre's.  I certainly did.

He had stripped off her night clothes.  I didn't see them anywhere in
the bedroom.  Her body was covered with blood.  He'd used a knife this
time he'd punished her.  There was blood everywhere I looked, but
especially between her legs.  Her beautiful brown eyes were staring
right up at me, but she saw nothing, and never would again.

The medical examiner turned around and saw me standing there.  I knew
the man, Merrill Snyder.  We had successfully worked together before
but nothing like this.

"She might have been raped," he whispered  "At any rate, he used the
knife on her.  Maybe he was cutting away evidence.  Who the hell knows,
Alex.  This is sick.  You have any ideas?"

"Yes,"I said in a low voice.  "I want to kill him for this, and I
will."

Chapter One Hundred and Twenty-Four

The killer was right there inside Betsey Cavalierre's apartment.  He
was feeling sadness and hatred theirs and he thrived on it.  This was
the supreme thrill for him, a great, great moment in his life.

To be here with the police and FBI.

To rub elbows, chat, listen to them curse him and shed tears for their
fallen compatriot, to smell their fear.  They were in a rage against
him.

And yet, they were powerless to do anything.

He was counting coup.  He was in control.

He even revisited Betsey Cavalierre, who had believed she would one day
rise to the top of the Federal Bureau.

What incredible hubris on her part.

Did she truly believe she was one of the best, the top brains in the
FBI?  Of course she did.  They all thought they were so goddamn smart
these days.

Well, she didn't look so smart right now, naked and coated with her own
blood, violated in every way he could imagine.

He saw Alex Cross coming out of the bedroom.  Cross looked humbled,
finally.  Humbled, but also self-righteous and angry.

He made certain he had his game face on, and then he walked right up to
Alex Cross.

This was the moment.

"I'm so sorry about Betsey," said Kyle Craig, the Mastermind.  "I'm so
sorry, Alex."

James Patterson has had seven international number one bestsellers in a
row ALONG

CAME A SPIDER, KISS THE GIRLS, JACK AND JILL, CAT AND MOUSE, WHEN THE

WIND BLOWS, POP GOES THE WEASEL and his most recent, CRADLE AND ALL.
His Alex Cross series is off to the fastest-selling start of any
featuring a continuing character.  KISS THE GIRLS was filmed by
Paramount Pictures and became a number one hit movie, and the film
version of ALONG CAME A SPIDER is currently in production.

